# 7 July 2022

In Attendance
-------------

- Chair: Antii-Jussi
- Present: Marc, Alec, Andrew, Ronald, Sonya
- Regrets: 


Organization Notes
-------------------
Last meeting notes here: https://hackmd.io/-Xj6LtENSF64MWiTqCaZog

Agenda
------

Find our focus and plan for the remaining meetings this year.

Topics to consider. What have we done so far and what smaller tasks could we pick up from these?

1. Tests on real data: Find a way to give PKP easy access to the partners' datasets so that the tests can be carried out on real scenarios.
2. Improve manual testing: Integrate partners in the circuit prior to each release, with early advices, guides of what to test and forms to unify returns.
3. Unify the software to test: Always test the same artefact and for me that means using the same docker image from the DEV phase to PROD.
4. ...


Notes
-----

Antii-Jussi summarizes the problems that in his opinion are blocking us.

Two types:
- Upgrade testing
- Performance.

Proposal:
- Clarify group's schedule against release process for 3.4
  - sep: Upgrade testing 3.4 
  - oct: performance testing / checklist
  - nov: performance testing 3.4
- Route to performance testing of OJS 3.4
    - Create a reusable patternt that we can follow before every larger release.
        - Upgrade testing documentation
        - Performance testing tools / checklist

Alec lists contributions of this group:
- LTS releases (with technical committee)
- [Pre-flight checks](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/blob/main/classes/migration/upgrade/v3_4_0/PreflightCheckMigration.inc.php) added to the upgrade process
- Automated upgrade testing implemented and [datasets repo](https://github.com/pkp/datasets)
- [Lucene plugin](https://github.com/pkp/lucene) updated and tested with OJS 3.3.x


We all agree that PKP will benefit from external/partners feedback.

OJS 3.4 introduces a lot of new stuff that help in testing/upgrading.

Ronald asks about a timing [when this work can begin]. Alec answers: Timing is good, OJS/OMP/OPS 3.4 is scheduled for Q4 and may slip to Q1 2023. Last large merges are nearly ready. Could begin real-world data tests anytime.

Could define: What are the deliverables and deadlines? e.g. 
Who are the partners we should work with on this kind of testing (real-world data)?
    - Finnish portal (~60,000 submissions or so, 110 journals)
    - Universitat AutÃ²noma de Barcelona
    - University of Alberta
    - SciELO (>100 journals)
    - Colombia
    - PKP hosted journals
    - Penn State 
    
What are we trying to identify?
    - Performance issues
        - Could be large number of submissions/journals (overall performance)
        - Could be a large number of authors (specific bottleneck)
        - Could be a large table of contents (specific bottleneck)
    - Upgrade failures (data integrity)
        - Variety / age of data is important

What could we produce?
  - Upgrade testing documentation (testing plan)
  - Tools to anonymize data (and disable 3rd party interactions) for testing purposes (PKP hosting has this -- Alec will share)

Projects to start working on this summer
  - August meeting: group decides what deliverables they want to work on for the upcoming year
  - For ?: Plan/guide for external testing process - how does external testing happen, how to testers participate / contribute?
  - For September: Performance testing tools. Alec and Antti-Jussi (others welcome).
 
 What would PKP dev team find useful?
  - Further develop the parts of the release planning diagram that relate to external testing
      - Related but probably separate: build a community testing guide or test plan
  - Determine a toolset and plan for performance testing
  - Run a community testing exercise with 3.4



Next steps (from previous meetings)
------------

- Everyone to paste their upgrade instructions into the Google document
    - Still needs work
- Alec to start a discussion about health check next steps in Slack
    - Still needs work
- Alec: Automate Lucene plugin testing
- Dulip: Contact potential Lucene users for whether they're using complex features (German community; support forum
- Antti-Jussi: Once Dulip has information on potentially removable features, can possibly turn removals into a PR.
- Find a cooler name for the testing group.

Next Meeting
------------

(Chair rotation order: Marc, Alec, Andrew, Ronald, Dulip, Sonya, Antti-Jussi)
- Time/Date: August 4, 8:00am Pacific
- Chair: Marc
- Topics: New name so team can be cooler
