---
title: Testing Group - 1 september 2022
tags: PKP, testing, workgroup
---

# 1 September 2022

In Attendance
-------------

- Chair: Marc
- Present: Alec, Anti-Jussi, Andrew, Dulip, Sonya, Ronald, Marc
- Regrets: 


Organization Notes
-------------------
Last meeting notes here: https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/main/testing-committee/meeting-minutes/2022-07-07.md
Zoom link: (removed)

Agenda
------

Last session main topic was "Find our focus and plan for the remaining meetings this year" (reading [old notes](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/main/testing-committee/meeting-minutes/2022-07-07.md) is recommended)

In short we agree that we were trying to identify performance issues & Upgrade failures (data integrity) and acording to former agenda, in this new meeting **"group will decide what deliverables they want to work on for the upcoming year (and when)"**. 

PKP dev team explained that would find useful:
  - Further develop the parts of the release planning diagram that relate to external testing
      - Related but probably separate: build a community testing guide or test plan
  - Determine a toolset and plan for performance testing
  - Run a community testing exercise with 3.4

So two tasks were announced:
  - **Plan/guide for external testing process** (Sonya) - how does external testing happen, how to testers participate / contribute
      - Alec to join; also to find existing documentation and potential participants
  - **Performance testing tools** (Alec and Antti-Jussi)

Others welcome in both subteams. 

Notes
-----
### Test plan
Potential participants: Marc (maybe); Sonya; Alec, Andrew, Dulip

- Test scripts and whether to have them
    - Pro: Makes it easy for an external tester to know they've met the obligations.
    - Con: Makes it likelier that testers will walk a well-tested path and miss the diversity of code paths needing exercising.
- Starting point
    - Document:
        - Who can participate
        - How to participate
        - What is most helpful to test
        - How to communicate the results back to PKP
        - Get into the weeds of technical details later
    - To answer:
        - How do we recruit testers?
        - How do we communicate with them?
        - How do we document the kinds of tests that would be helpful?
        - Are the resources we will provide with the release adequate (technical documentation; workflow changes)?
- Next steps
    - Alec to reach out to Nate, documentation group, hosting, and find existing documentation about how this used to work. Then we can schedule a meeting.
        - Include test script documentation from testing committee.

### Performance testing tools

- Alec and Antti-Jussi to talk about options for a potential October presentation. (Was September; that meeting was not held due to AGM.)
- How do we know when there are performance problems?
    - Currently -- when OJS crashes. Not a good way.
    - What about dashboards/advance warning?
        - Instrumentation should be a lot easier as shared hosting adopts better options (e.g. containerization); Portainer and Yacht, for example.
        - Slow query identification in MySQL
- What about the distinction between performance and profiling?
- Conversation directions
    - Tools for developers
    - Tools for administrators
    - Large user volume
        - Dulip has some experience with Roadrunner, which has a FOSS edition
        - Marc has some experience with Apache Benchmark
    - Inefficient queries / single operations or pages
        - Would SQL queries be a suitable unit for performance proxying?
        - Would API queries be better? (Probably.)
- Existing conversations: (removed)
- Start small and expand outward from there: a tool for profiling tests and detailing options. Pick small solutions to start.

Next steps (from previous meetings)
------------

- Everyone to paste their upgrade instructions into the Google document (removed)
    - Still needs work
    - We may have two documents going.
- Alec to start a discussion about health check next steps in Mattermost
    - Still needs work
- Alec: Automate Lucene plugin testing
    - Done
- Dulip: Contact potential Lucene users for whether they're using complex features (German community; support forum
    - About 15 responses came in.
    - Proposal: Hold a 1hr meeting; capture requirements from each user.
    - Antti-Jussi: Once Dulip has information on potentially removable features, can possibly turn removals into a PR.
- Find a cooler name for the testing group.

Next Meeting
------------

(Chair rotation order: Alec, Andrew, Ronald, Dulip, Sonya, Antti-Jussi, Marc)
- Time/Date: 6 Oct, 8:00am Pacific
- Chair: Alec
- Topics: External testing documentation; performance testing
