# 6 January 2022

In Attendance
-------------

- Chair: Marc
- Present: Antti-Jussi, Andrew, Marc, Alec
- Regrets: Sonya, Dulip


Actions from last meeting:
---------------------------
1. start thinking about "health checks" and fast testing. Andrew can start us off with some examples. 
2. Create place to start sharing our own testing procedures and tests (non-judgemental). Sonya can create google doc and share out for everyone to use. 


Performance Optimization
------------------------

Upgrade Testing
---------------
- Updates
    - OJS 3.1.0 and 3.1.1 automatic upgrade testing added (http://pkp.sfu.ca/pkp/datasets); some bugs fixed
- Brainstorming
    - What are each of our upgrade checklists look like?
        - See Google document.
    - Health check
        - See suggested metrics in Google document.
        - These would be programmatically retrievable (e.g. "healthcheck" verb in upgrade script)
        - Could also be an API-based report (e.g. for Nagios) or command-line based (for linear upgrade process without side-by-side)
        - Need to add infrastructure in OJS; could pick one health check metric (e.g. MySQL storage engine check) as a guinea pig
    - Documenting/templating how to submit results
        - Anonymize
            - Drupal has several anonymizers
            - GDPR limitations -- encrypting and hashing aren't enough. But public data is
            - Munging the data might be enough.
            - Content generation to replace data?
            - Do we want to do this?
                - PKP would rather build competencies and tools for 3rd parties to do the testing, rather than making it easier to send the datasets to the mothership :)
        - Trim data/files
        - 

Performance testing
-------------------
- Tabled for next meeting

Other topics
------------

Next Steps
----------
- Alec will organize a Cypress session -- watch the Slack channel
- Alec will start a discussion about health check infrastructure
- Everyone will paste their upgrade processes/instructions into the Google doc
- Everyone think in the topic of next meeting (performance testing)

Next Meeting
------------

- Time/Date: February 6, 2022 8:00am Pacific time
- Chair: Andrew (Chair rotation: Dulip, Rondineli, Sonya, Ronald, Antti-Jussi, Marc)
- Projects:
