# 3 March 2022

In Attendance
-------------

- Chair: Andrew
- Present: Dulip, Ronald, Alec, Andrew, Antti-Jussi
- Regrets: Sonya, Vitaliy

Organization Notes
-------------------
February meeting cancelled.

Performance testing
-------------------
- Performance testing discussed/brainstormed in November meeting (minutes: https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/0170f2215c6f2d40512ce2479206e13e86afcf36/testing-committee/meeting-minutes/2021-11-04.md)
- Large issues
    - Dulip mentioned during brainstorming. Generally interested but hasn't had much time to put into it yet
        - ~80 journals in 1 installation; virtual hosting. Searches were slow.
        - Solution was to use a separate search server (Solr).
    - Antti-Jussi also experienced search problems. Also >100 journals. Using Solr/Lucene 8 with OJS plugin.
        - Would like better support for Lucene plugin.
        - Needing 3.3 support is a blocker to upgrade.
    - Ronald suggests considering tools: internal search and Lucene.
        - Internal search has current filed issues e.g. improving multilingual search
    - Alec
        - "Large issues" might have been referring to issues with a large number of articles in them; likely needs specific optimization
        - It's been hard to find time to work on tasks related to this working group -- too busy!
        - Suggest checking with group for updates on what is currently in progress, or looking to sprint for an opportunity
- Sprint might be a good venue for work
    - June 15/16 in Helsinki, Finland
    - Final go/no-go decision will be made in April
    - Will be looking for ideas for work
    - Need to scope tasks to 2 days.
- Lucene plugin improvements
    - Can we simplify the Lucene plugin?
        - How do we identify who uses it?
            - Beacon has proposed to collect information about plugin use
            - We could try to fetch the Lucene plugin's README or something -- heavy-handed
        - We could contact forum members who have been active on the subject
        - Dulip can contact user community to find out what features they're using.
    - What improvements can we make?
        - Needs upgrade to 3.3
        - Needs automated testing
        - Alec can look into those two.
- Other activity:
    - Merged major changes to locale loading (using 3rd party tools)
    - Can now revisit Stash for caching; this has additional back-ends
    - Started working on SciELO upgrade/performance testing; found a helpful data quirk (merged users can have two reviews in a single round)
- Dockerization refactoring (Andrew)
    - Initial setup in Kubernetes cluster
    - Working on getting configuration finished
    - Environment/configuration file interactions :(
    - Will result in PRs.
    - Alec: There is an issue for considering another configuration file format; this might help. (https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/7659)
        - Would need to solve config exposure issue (since config file is in web root)
        - Would need to provide upgrade toolset (to prevent users from having to convert config files)
    - Dulip and Antti-Jussi are also considering some future Docker work; would make sense to coordinate.
        - Andrew's work is:
            - Spinning up OJS from scratch
            - Bringing all code into one place (branches etc)
            - Will result in 18 or 19 separate Docker OJS instances, rather than a single multijournal OJS
            - Some issues with Alpine and legacy versions of dependencies disappearing
- Github Actions
    - Marc has been experimenting with some early results
- 

Upgrade testing
---------------
- Next steps from last time
    - Everyone to paste their upgrade instructions into the Google document
        - Still needs work
    - Alec to start a discussion about health check next steps in Slack
        - Still needs work

Other topics
------------
- Next steps from last time
    - Alec to run a Cypress testing session
    - This group is OK to record it for outside contributors to benefit from

Next Steps
----------
- Alec: Automate Lucene plugin testing
- Dulip: Contact potential Lucene users for whether they're using complex features (German community; support forum
- Antti-Jussi: Once Dulip has information on potentially removable features, can possibly turn removals into a PR.

Next Meeting
------------

- Time/Date: April 7th, 8:00am Pacific
- Chair: Dulip
- Projects:
    - Andrew demo on Kubernetes-based OJS
    - Alec potentially recording Lucene plugin testing session
    - Dulip to confirm readiness 1-2 weeks before meeting
