---
title: Testing Force Team - 2 February 2023
tags: PKP, testing, workgroup
---

# 2 February 2022

In Attendance
-------------

- Chair: Dulip
- Present: Dulip, Alec, Ronald, Erik, Andrew, Marc
- Regrets: 


Organization Notes
-------------------
- [Last meeting notes](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/main/testing-committee/meeting-minutes/2022-11-03.md)


Agenda
------

- Status updates: 
- Alec:
    - 3.3.0-14 comes soon (probably tomorrow)
- Upgrade testing process/documentation
    - Leaders identifed for subtasks (PKP communications and operations involvled)
    - Landing page for testers , email function added
    - Untested areads captuers Subscriptions etc. please bring people in
    - Test plan : testscript and Form
        - diffent Test areas are defined in the form for specific groups
        - Template Copies are distributed to the testers
        - Feedback will be fed into github
    - Marc:  Question Automating the communication
    - Alec: Propose google docs as a first step, dev team will look into and create issues in pkp-lib
    - Andrew: use recommend autocrat? in google-docs, similar to mailmerge
    - Alec: lot of work, minimal plan
    - Marc: text-templates can be problematic because people don't follow them. We can use web-forms, can do lime-survey and will do personally.
    - Alec: Around 20  different forms
    - Marc: customizable forms with conditional fields. Therefore  minimal week
    - Alec: Single template, Alec will create a form today, Decision pending, 2-3 weeks , 19 more forms. If Marc can do that, we can try
    - Marc: Agreed, first form done
    - Alec: first TG can test and later to the other  testers
    - Marc: Tooling was a suggestion
    - Alec: Structuring and standardizing is good. Agreed for testing the proposal. Will  check with Sonya too.
    - Andrew: Checking the format
    - Alec: Target Feb 15 as the first release candidate. First release candidate is tested internally within DEV team. Will report. Rushing may be problematic, as this group is still defining process, but Alec will coordinate if there are problematic areas

- Test Plan - Performance testing tools
    - Alec tested sicelo database. Testscripts were tightened. 1.5 hours for big database.
    - Foreign-key testing  is intensive, still fast.
    - What paid off: pre-flight check without breaking the current db. 
    - Loading databases are really quick (before 20 minutes for scielo)
    - Marc:  are there any tools needed or the plan ?
    - Alec: has a list, uprgrade testing  was proiritzed. Areas are essential to be identified for testing
      - https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/7304
    - AJ is going to test large tables of contents
    - Everybody please contribute and report back
    - Ronald : Is OMP included ?
    - Alec: Testers should identify their application. OMP  can be  problematic. 
    - Define : Internal testing : more debugging, 
    - Define: External Testing
    - Marc: Are plugins included ? All plugins or only pkp or plus partners ?
    - Plugin testing issue for release 3.4.0: https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/8338
    - Plugin testing issue for 3.3.0: https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/6691
    - Alec: Plugins can come out later. PKP  has a set of plugins and prioritize. Draft of the release notebook is given to Developers, will be avaialble a little later
    - Marc: what are the tests. Big community in Spain, will "invlove" (from involve and love) them in testing. Installation needed.
    - Alec: [internal info] Functional tesing will be welcome. Automated testing is preferred for functional testing. 
- General
    - Marc: Calender needed for the appointements
    - Alec: included in the form
    - Andrew: Continue working on ojs validation list. Conslidating tests. Identify tests  that can be automated.  
    - Alec: mattermost commmincation  preffered
    - Andrew: Feature changing,

  Next steps (from previous meetings)
------------


Next Meeting
------------

(Chair rotation order: Alec, Andrew, Ronald, Dulip, Sonya, Antti-Jussi, Marc)
- Time/Date:  March 2,  8:00am Pacific
- Chair: Sonya
- Topics: status updates 
