# 22 May 2013

**Present:** Bart Kawula (OCUL), Qinqin Lin (OCUL), Brian Gregg (Pitt), Jason Nugent (PKP), James MacGregor (PKP), Barbara Hui (CDL), Alec Smecher (PKP), Allan Bell (UBC)

**Minutes:** James (PKP)

**New member introductions:**

-   Allan Bell (UBC), Director of Digital Initiatives at UBC
-   Bronwen Sprout (UBC), Digital Initiatives Librarian for UBC

**What have we all been working on PKP-wise?**

-   Barbara (CDL): working away on various OMP tasks.
-   Brian (Pitt): still using 2.3.8 in production environment; evaluating 2.4.x, but haven't yet moved to it. Dealing with staff shortages.
-   Qinqin (Scholar's Portal): Coming to the end of another internal project, which should free up some time.
-   Alec (PKP): continuing to work on porting UI tools from OMP to OJS. Nearing first alpha release (in \~5 weeks). Also doing some work with OMP and our early adopters group.
-   James (PKP): doing a lot of omp early developer organization, otherwise helping manage bugs.
-   Jason (PKP): working on the porting of OMP elements to OJS. Working away.

**At-large membership: discuss poll results; identify top choices; make a plan for inviting nominees.**

-   we have four top choices, one of whom may possibly be involved via other means.
-   Is it worth inviting the individual, but asking them to nominate another member from their home institution if there's a better fit? We're really going for institutional access here.
-   Alec to draft invitation letter.

**3 volunteers from members committee - status?**

-   Haven't heard. Barbara or Alec will check with Brian.

**Reviewing our mandate, cont'd.** **Charge \#1:** provide technical input and advice on PKPâ€™s software development methodologies and priorities.

-   Last time the group came to the consensus that PKP priorities and methodologies are unclear. We are working towards fixing this so that we can begin to give input.
-   James - overview of what priorities/methodologies documentation is available. How does the new WP site fit in and what's the status?
    -   James gave an overview of the current documentation and priorities and documentations; information available in PKP Google Group.
    -   also gave an overview of the website migration and documentation projects.

**New priorities-related document (thanks Alec et al): Software Milestones page needs review.**

-   Overall need for better documentation and organization/accessibility of information. Need for improving developer relations. How?
-   Discuss which format to use (blog? wiki?) for organizing/storing documents (e.g. agendas, meeting minutes, documentation). See this Google group thread

**Committee communication**

-   Google group
    -   problems voiced by some external members about using Google Groups from a policy/privacy perspective.
    -   technically, we're in a bit of a bind. SFU can't currently provide mailing lists that are also archivable. Brian and James will be following up with them about that.
    -   in the meantime, we'll continue using Google Groups.
-   IRC? There is a \#pkp channel on chat.freenode.net. Will renew our use of this group on a trial basis.

**Next meeting: how about Tuesday 18 June, 9am**

-   We may invite our "new" invited members to attend as well.

**Anything else?**

-   How do we feel about circulating minutes?
    -   Minutes to be circulated via Google Group, with a copy (possibly redacted where necessary) posted publicly to the wiki.
