# 14 Nov 2013

In attendance:
--------------

Alec Smecher, Bozana Bokan, Jason Nugent, Marc Bria, Rachel Hu, Barbara Hui

Round of Updates
----------------

AS:

-   getting OMP 1.1 done. Testing needs to be started shortly. Stats needs to be migrated. Working on import tools.
-   also doing some backing work for UI/UX. Staying off of interface changes for OJS.
-   still about to release OJS 2.4.3; final work on stats testing is taking longer work.

BB:

-   previous project has ended; waiting to hear about new project (beginning of December).
-   some journals would like to participate in OJS 3.0 review process.
-   evaluating OMP as well. Would like someone to walk her through the workflow.
-   backporting.

JN:

-   finished off Github action item ([Github Documentation for PKP Contributors](Github_Documentation_for_PKP_Contributors "wikilink")). Reviewed by Brian Gregg.
-   working on OJS 3.0 stuff (UI/UX)
-   getting ready for 2.4.3 OJS release.
-   Working on ONIX and import/export tools for OMP 1.1.

MB:

-   working on script that he will be demonstrating today.

RH:

-   tail end of data gathering phase; 2 more tests left.
-   tesitng with admins, jms, authors, editors, reviewers.
-   putting OJS 3.0 through its paces at all levels of workflow.
    -   working through journal migration/import as well.
-   moving into analysis phase.
    -   looking to wrap up by December

BH:

-   providing support for UI/UX until that was handed off to Jason.
-   attended the PKP advisory committee, gave feedback to that group.
    -   committee suggested we consider having an unconference at the next AGM (annual general meeting).
    -   list of priorities for OJS 3.0 were discussed; committee would like us to weigh in on those in conjunction with the member's committee

PKP unconference at AGM 2014? (Barbara)
---------------------------------------

Hackfest for sure, possibly also an unconference.

Other
-----

Weighing in on OJS 3.0 priorities in collaboration with the Members Committee? (Barbara)

-   Agreed.

Jason and Brian's git(hub) documentation - please read/use and comment

Next meeting - Tuesday 17 December, 9am PST. UPDATE: December meeting cancelled. We will reconvene in January.

Marc provided a presentation "About mOJO (Multiple OJs Operations)".

-   Wiki: [Installation: Multiple OJS & mOJO](http://pkp.sfu.ca/wiki/index.php?title=Installation:_Multiple_OJS_%26_mOJO)
-   Vídeo: [Introduction & tutorial (15 minutes)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DSCQWYhhf9w)
-   Vídeo: [Session recording (17 minutes)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mL9m5EphDFs)
