# 2 Oct 2013

**Present**: Alec S, Brian G, Marc B, Rachael H, Jason N, Barbara H, James M, Bartek K

Round of Updates
----------------

-   PKP:
    -   OJS 3.0a maintained stable for UI/UX review
    -   OMP 1.1 coming up in December; import/export, expedited submission, stats
    -   OJS 3.0b will be rescheduled to incorporate UI/UX feedback
    -   OJS 2.4.3 will be released soon with stats rewrite and many small fixes
    -   Jason working on git documentation for Brian/Pitt to review
    -   James: Hired a familiar face to work primarily on hosting, but also some documentation and support duties. Part time
    -   Working to get a developer for one hosted client.
    -   Working with Kevin on documentation.
    -   Ongoing contact with Brian H

-   Pitt
    -   OMP work: naming and domain for production site necessary for launch
    -   Rachael communicating with Vanessa on test data and UI/UX testing
    -   Vanessa working with external institutions re: Dataverse testing in December

-   Marc Bria / UAB
    -   Marc has found a couple of developers interested in contributing to templating/theming
    -   Theming is a common first point of interaction for developers; important to get right

-   CDL
    -   Rachael speaking with several intitutions; collecting representation for broad variety of uses/configurations
    -   Recruiting editors, authors, reviewers
    -   Hope to bring feedback to various committees in December
    -   Alec offers to tackle minor development if it would help avoid pain points; Rachael will send one.
    -   Rachael working with Bruno on dashboard refinement
    -   Barbara: Helping Rachael with UI/UX support; waiting for some data; local support

-   OCUL
    -   Bart: Nothing much to report; migrated an OMP install onto OCUL servers

Update on commitments made in August
------------------------------------

-   James talking with [redacted]. Continued. Need to consider further, perhaps talk with Brian & Kevin. Code may need refinement.
-   Alec is happy to review code even if it's at early stages
-   Have some plugin code from Juan to potentially pass along for refinement
-   [potential partnership with X]: MOU finally out of legal
-   Alec: UI/UX installation: Setup completed. Barbara has access.
-   Brian O: Following up leads. Likely ongoing.
-   Member interests document: Some information filled in. More to do.
    -   Next meeting: each partner can say a few words about their interests that we can turn into potential work items.
-   Jason: github documentation. Work with Brian. Underway; nothing shared yet.
-   Brian O: Volunteered to take some items to the other committees; Barbara will follow up
-   Alec: Committed to asking Marc about multi-journal training structure.
    -   Marc enthusiastic. Next meeting might be good opportunity.
    -   Mark likes hangouts.
    -   Hangouts: we hit participant limits before; not sure if they're still the same
    -   Barbara: Readytalk is available. Marc: Can't share screen with Linux.
    -   Alec will double-check limits on Google Hangouts.
    -   Marc: 20 minutes or half an hour would probably be enough.

Community feedback document
---------------------------

-   Alec commits to reviewing the document for high-level goals.

UI/UX review
------------

-   As above in updates section

Next meeting
------------

-   Thursday Nov 14th, 9am
