# 16 Jul 2013

**Present:** Bart Kawula (OCUL), Brian Gregg (Pitt), Jason Nugent (PKP), Barbara Hui (CDL), Alec Smecher (PKP), Allan Bell (UBC), Bozana Bokan (FUB), Marc Bria (UAB), Lisa Schiff (CDL), Rachael Hu (CDL)

**Minutes:** Alec (PKP)

**Round of updates**

-   Alec (PKP): Final preparations for OJS 3.0 alpha; successful review with CDL on Thursday; upcoming review with John on Tuesday. Theming discussion continues, with alpha not going to include results, but to form basis for hacking/discussion.
-   Bartek (OCUL): Continued contact with UofO about OMP pilot; busy but keen, especially after seeing French; hope to hear back within a few weeks.
-   Bozana (FUB): Working to port some updates to the 3.0 codebase; preparing 2 workshops.
-   Brian Gregg (Pitt): Not much to report; just returned from OR2013.
-   Lisa (CDL): Trying to add taxonomy to a workflow; adding new fields to article settings. Frustrating.
-   Marc (UAB): Busy with non-PKP work. Participated in theming discussion; discussion on systems to get feedback from user community. Will send forum post to group describing hosting; will contact Alec re: problematic URLs in OJS.
-   Barbara (CDL): Back-porting for OJS 3.0; stuck on upgrades. Alec will assist.
-   Rachael (CDL): Introduction; working on UI/UX review. Hope to get user testing started by end of month/beginning of next. Working on recruitment; ensuring UI/UX review doesn't collide with user feedback discussion or alpha release. Want to capture all categories of use: editorial-only with publication elsewhere; full workflow and publishing; etc. Different roles. Open to joining this group again to keep projects synchronized.
    -   Marc: Shared <http://tympanus.net/codrops/2012/12/11/fullscreen-pageflip-layout/> as an inspiring example
    -   Rachael: May also be useful for environmental scan; will share credentials for wiki for others to view.
    -   Bozana: May have journals in Germany that would be interesting to include.
-   Allan (UBC): Continue to be resource-constrained for technical personnel; not sure this committee is the best fit. Speaking with Brian about other opportunities.
    -   Rachael: Advisory? Coordination? Potentials there.
    -   Brian: Pittsburgh is in a similar situation.
    -   Alec: Suggest continuing to talk with Brian about opportunities and reporting back; he seemed optimistic about UBC's potential.
-   Jason (PKP): Bug fixing; reader front end; preparing for OJS 3.0 alpha release. Will be traveling for approx. 2 weeks.

**OJS UX Review project**

-   (As above)

**Discuss process: Getting feedback from the PKP community**

-   Alec: Discussion covers several topics: bridging gap between high- and low-level tasks; soliciting feedback and prioritization; continuous feedback and testing
-   Bozana: Email could work too, depending on process; feels more personal. Not sure whether this was specific to alpha release or ongoing. Not sure if this will involve a lot of additional administration.
-   Alec: Was considering this for ongoing planning and community involvement, not so much specific to Alpha release. We're already looking at ways to categorize/display mid-level tasks internally, so exposing to community might not be much extra administration.
-   Rachael: Was concerned about overlap, now less so. Can use UI/UX review to inform ongoing process.
-   Alec: Like the idea, but can't really help design it because PKP doesn't have methodology. Open to proposals.
-   Marc: Overall suggestions. Asks for a way/tool to know if an website is full reviewed (as far as translators need to test every possible screen); also suggest XAMPP as packaging platform for less technical testers.
-   Rachael: Distinguish between technical testing and end-user testing per CDL.
-   Bozana: Also specific tasks have opportunities for testing, e.g. file upload, which is quite different from before.
-   Jason: Another testing platform option is VirtualBox images.
-   Alec: VirtualBox image could be interesting tie-in to old/moribund "PKP appliance" discussion, which needs proposals. Packaging too much risks decreasing platform testing, but suspect it would result in more testers overall.
-   Jason: Likewise Mark Leggott's work on Islandora (?) (WRT images and appliances).
-   Alec: Conversation is diverging; suggest regrouping and problem-solving each element separately.
-   Barbara: Will summarize based on minutes.
-   Alec: Will introduce Marc to translation tools discussion (Pootle, Transifex)

**ORCID grant opportunity**

-   Lisa: Might be an opportunity for a group to take it on and partner/cooperate with PKP.
-   Alec: Have already been approached by 3 groups with similar ideas. Have to tackle some author disambiguation work internally before ORCID integration would be suitable; spec work underway. Not sure how applicable membership is going to be to our user community. Will inquire with ORCID about possibilities.

**PKP Tech Committee Meeting**

-   At PKP Conference in Mexico City - Tuesday 20 August during lunch, which is 1:15-3pm
-   Details for telepresence not available yet, but it's a priority
