# 20 Aug 2013

August 20 1:30pm, Mexico City

**Present:** Bozana Bokan, Brian Gregg, Rachael Hu, Barbara Hui, James MacGregor, Mark Newton (Columbia), Jason Nugent, Brian Owen, Alec Smecher. (Marc Bria and Lisa Schiff were telepresent for the 1st 5 minutes of the meeting, then had to drop out because of technical difficulties.)

**Minutes:** Alec.

Introductions
-------------

-   Mark Newton, Columbia University. Sitting in on this meeting.
-   Jayne Dickson (CDL) will be helping with the UI/UX review

PKP Development Priorities
--------------------------

-   Alec:
    -   <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cQeCL4eVvVQ4Sk3cWhAY5nN_pWXvCWPusd9XilPYzik/edit?pli=1>
    -   Came from PKP internal discussions over the last month or two
    -   Attempt to identify potential dev targets for OJS 3.0
    -   Many are already "baked in" (UI/UX; upgrade; back-porting)
    -   Some dependent on grants/specific funding
    -   Some depend on resource impact on team (some have external resources)
    -   Also motivated by desire to better expose "mid-size" development priorities

-   Barbara: May be possible to use UI/UX review to guinea-pig implementation decisions
    -   Rachael: via Members committee, take findings out to community? Have members/advisory board/John validate/vet? Present as package deal with community feedback
    -   Alec: Agree in principle, but concerned about potential for community feedback process being an unknown time cost. Feeling time pressure leading up to OJS 3.0.
    -   Brian O: Is members committee a sufficient proxy for the community?
    -   Moving on many of the recommendations may be self-evident

Process for Managing Contributions from Tech Committee and Larger PKP Community
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-   James: [redacted] presented this AM; they want to contribute back
    -   UI improvements; XML authoring; OAK integration; ORCID (by 2014). They want to get moving.
    -   Barbara: Make sense to include them in at-large group? Still have one spot available.
    -   They might be interested in push access.
    -   Brian: Commercial vs. open source; lots of dynamics to consider.
    -   Barbara: Community leadership summit had lots of examples.

-   Barbara: People want to commit but the process is not clear.
    -   Alec: Have a fairly simple mix: most do pull requests; Bozana/Free University Berlin has commit access but checks with Alec informally before pushing code up.
    -   Barbara: Need to actually document it clearly.
    -   Alec: Ran tech session including Brian. Presented github workflow. Suspect that Google hangouts for tech sessions is not enough; need to follow up with persistent documentation (e.g. wiki).

-   Ideas on how to proceed:
    -   Quantify availability of various team members
    -   Deputize Tech Committee members to manage subprojects
    -   Work specifically on:
        -   on-ramping
        -   refining UI/UX into more specific details as a prerequisite to defining decision-making process
    -   James: use Asana task management system? (PKP already has this installed).

-   Mark Newton: How formalized is the time contribution?

-   Alec: Not formalized. But would like to start providing structure.

-   Mark: Fedora feedback: If you could go back in time, could you change anything? Yes: integrate committers with governance.

-   Brian Owen: Early days; want to farm off some responsibility if it makes sense, but need to be aware of pitfalls.

-   Barbara: Structure necessary but think it has to come from PKP.

-   Alec: i.e. project-managing based on specific assignments and hours-per-week?

-   Rachael: Not exactly. Like e.g. room for brainstorming in the meeting.

-   Brian O: e.g. adding reports to head of agenda, where sub-groups could report on progress.

-   Jason: Trust implicitly that groups are contributing?

-   Brian O: Need to step up gradually.

-   Alec: Did go further with CDL: Back-porting work from Barbara, and also UI/UX review, which is a huge priority.

-   Brian O: What about Bozana's experience?

-   Bozana: Process has worked well. We exchanged about scheduling, etc.

-   Brian O: Contributing element might be grant funding with specific dates. Provides FUB with deadlines, also passes them onto us. We've managed that OK. Organic development exchange has happened through gradual build.

-   Brian G: Way for members of the group to communicate what they could potentially give, time-wise. a) not setting someone up for failure; b) not messing up timelines.

-   Alec: Need self-interest. (Brian: yes, enlightened self-interest.) Berlin contributes what they clearly need solved; not sure farming out priorities that don't have immediate, \$-related impact will succeed as well.

-   Brian G: Need github documentation as priority.

-   Rachael: Met Carol working with Coaction. They've just hired a UI person. Would like to identify synergies.

-   Brian O: Thought we contacted them?

-   James: They're a good example: they're interested in testing; asked them for test data; etc. Good partners.

-   Brian G: Could we document what members are interested in working in?

-   Barbara: Good idea. Wiki is a good place; James can give logins.

-   Alec: What about for broader community?

-   Brian G: That might spark more developer interest.

-   Discussion about tooling. James: Wordpress?

-   Rachael: Setting up organization model in advance on wordpress is a good idea.

-   Brian: It's often a feast/famine cycle; e.g. conference turns up tremendous amount of leads.

-   Brian: Commit to tackling coordinating leads raised by the conference. Correlating against development priorities, for example. Internally will do; can share. COMMIT.

Rachael: UI/UX update
---------------------

-   Really heavily into mapping out tasks; intensive sessions with Alec.

-   Make sure we're not running into drop-dead bugs.

-   Next comes recruitment.

-   Environmental scan of existing scholarly publishing software: Will present tomorrow AM. Will feed UI/UX in terms of problem-solving.

-   Documentation. How do I convey this to you? Can show previous documentation with Alec. Previously, tend to do weekly meetings to supplement documentation.

-   Alec: Can set up specific OJS 3.0 alpha fork to use for UX review. COMMIT.

Other
-----

-   Alan Bell (UBC): Spoke with Brian. Local resource shortfall.
-   via Brian O.: LOCKSS PLN potential.

Commitments made during the meeting
-----------------------------------

1.  James will start talking with [redacted].
2.  Alec will set up specific OJS 3.0 alpha fork to use for UX review.
3.  Brian O.: Commit to tackling coordinating leads raised by the conference. Correlating against development priorities, for example. Internally will do; can share.
4.  Document describing member interests. Barbara will kick off internal documentation to keep track of tech committee member contribution interests. Brian G will help.
5.  Jason will kick off some github documentation; work with Brian G. Barbara happy to help with review and editing.
6.  Brian O.: Volunteers taking some of these topics to advisory/members.
7.  Alec: talk theming with Marc Bria now that Alpha is out.
8.  Alec: Will ask Marc about running a session on his multi-journal set-up at U Barcelona. Will plan to base the presentation on documentation rather than simply ephemeral hangout.
