# 8 April 2014

In Attendance
-------------

Alec Smecher, Kevin Stranack, Jason Nugent, James MacGregor, Bartek Kawula, Brian Gregg

Quick updates
-------------

-   Recently had a successful PKP Sprint.
-   Have been working on follow-up, especially on integration/testing and UI/UX.
-   Have been seeing a slight uptick in code contributions via Github, which is great.

Upcoming milestones (Alec Smecher)
----------------------------------

-   OJS 2.4.4 (currently in translation) with primarily patches, plus some improvements after the sprint
-   OJS 2.4.5 is being scheduled for the summer
-   OMP 1.1.0 came out last month: represents a lot of new code (stats, expedited submission process, more)
-   OMP 1.1.1 being considered for release sooner rather than later, but waiting in consideration of UI/UX release
-   OCS release planned for this summer; patch fixes plus also contributions from Columbia
-   OMP 1.2/OJS 3.0b: currently waiting to be scheduled. Will schedule based on UI/UX review.
-   Pitt: New hire on now; looking forward to starting Plum widget;
    -   getting new hire up to speed on git; Alec volunteered to help with orientation

Review tech committee mandate (Alec Smecher)
--------------------------------------------

-   deferring until next meeting.

UI/UX update (Kevin Stranack)
-----------------------------

-   short term goals:
    -   review existing software (OMP 1.1/OJS 3)
    -   Kevin gathering existing reviews
    -   User Services Group has also been created, yet to be clearly defined
    -   some easy wins we can pull out of reviews
    -   Question: where to track this work? Wiki works for now.
        -   possibly also use the new forum?
        -   stay away from trying a complete process overhaul at once

Sprint debrief (Alec Smecher)
-----------------------------

-   Really productive, lots of code, lots of group work.
-   some areas of work pushed through much more quickly than previously, eg. CrossRef work; testing work; LOCKSS PLN; UI/UX; usability standards;
-   general 2.4 bugs fixed.
-   considering tying one in with the AGM this fall.

Mailing lists
-------------

-   retiring pkp-support; split into pkp-internal, pkp-dev (wider developer mailing list).
-   if you want to be included on pkp-dev, please let Alec know. Medium-traffic list.

Next meeting: Tuesday the 29th, 9am PDT.