# 23 September 2014

In Attendance
-------------

Present: Alec, Jason, Bartek, Bozana, Brian, Clinton, Kevin, Jeannette

Quick Updates
-------------

-   Jeannette
    -   Joined us last week, has offered to join the tech committee next month, and will chair. Will not attend the sprint, however.
-   Alec
    -   Working on the static pages plugin
    -   Discussing with Heidelberg changes around edited volumes within OMP. Changing the way entities are sourced for OAI, mainly due to the demand to sell chapters instead of whole books.
-   Bozana
    -   Working with OMP, customization work. Integration with Book reader, etc.
-   Bartek
    -   Hosting work, helping U of T migrate and upgrade their OJS from 2.3.x to 2.4.5. A lot of customization work to migrate.
-   Brian and Clinton
    -   Met with PLUM analytics partners, put in contact with the folks at SUSHI lite, will start code shortly, probably after the sprint and AGM.
    -   Clinton has started using 2.4.5, found a few bugs re: stats and custom theme.
-   Kevin
    -   UIUX work, see below.
-   Jason
    -   Working on OMP 1.1.1 bugs
    -   Customization work for AAA
    -   Metapress XML import into OJS 2.4.x

Release Progress
----------------

-   OJS 2.4.5
    -   Released September 17
    -   Good download numbers, over 500 in a few days.

No medium impact bugs reported yet. Quite pleased. New functionality: LOCKSS PLN plugin, CrossRef work, statistics improvements, testing framework

-   OMP 1.1.1
    -   scheduled for October. Possibly November.

-   OJS 3.0beta
    -   Soliciting feedback on the copyediting process. Quite confident that a release for the beta will happen in 2015.

PKP Development Sprint
----------------------

-   October 1 and 2, in Vancouver.
-   Registrations figured out. Smaller group than what we had in the sprint. Full PKP team is attending, a number of universities attending. We will try to make something work for remote participants. UIUX, reader interfaces, some testing work, a few other interesting topics from the survey.

-   The AGM happens on Oct 3. Hoping to find a way to include the tech committee, but the meeting is in the afternoon which may make European involvement difficult. Will send out agenda beforehand for comments.

UI/UX (Kevin)
-------------

-   recent focus has been on the copyediting workflow
-   experimenting with an internal discussion format
-   did some user testing with wireframes, made some revisions
-   doing another round with [revised wireframes](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1nUKG3cfj6txskLDh24g3aC4hNxQcfDoX6RNLpK9c8n4/edit#slide=id.g399d7b3c4_099), looking for volunteers
-   AGM sprint, review UX work to date
-   AGM sprint, analysis of reader interfaces, developing set of best practices for OJS 3 / OMP

Automated Testing (Alec)
------------------------

### OJS 2.4.5

Includes basic test suite in place (data build, unit, functional, plugin)

-   [OJS 2.4.5 build](https://travis-ci.org/pkp/ojs/builds/35601887)
-   [Test data spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1pW0KgmtcRlmrhjzxNPd9LgqniZQ6M651e5OwXWKUEA8/edit#gid=0) [Implementation](https://github.com/pkp/ojs/tree/ojs-stable-2_4_5/tests/data)
-   [Example integration test](https://github.com/pkp/ojs/blob/ojs-stable-2_4_5/tests/functional/search/WorkflowSearchTest.php)

### OMP 1.1

-   Working on data definition

### OMP / OJS Master

Will additionally need to consider testing framework for plugins managed in separate repositories.

Git changes & documentation
---------------------------

-   ojs-stable-2_4 branch renamed to [ojs-dev-2_4](https://github.com/pkp/ojs/tree/ojs-dev-2_4)
-   Introduced new production-ready [ojs-stable-2_4_5](https://github.com/pkp/ojs/tree/ojs-stable-2_4_5) branch
-   Using github.com to manage [recommended patches](http://pkp.sfu.ca/wiki/index.php?title=OJS_Recommended_Patches) for future releases
-   Still need to review/fix git documentation on wiki.

Next Meeting
------------

-   October 28th, 9 am PST.
