# 29 July 2014

In Attendance
-------------

Alec, Bozana, Brian, Clinton, James, Jason, Kevin, Marc

Quick Updates
-------------

-   alec
    -   stable releases scheduled
    -   maint releases
    -   working on plugin gallery
    -   continuing to work with automatic testing
    -   agm = oct 2/3 + sprint oct 1/2

-   james
    -   mostly working on hosting, migrations to our servers, etc.
    -   translation rounds started, new mailing list

-   jason
    -   workflow stages tab implementation done
    -   import/export work, based on smithsonian needs; developed spreadsheet for importing back issues
    -   book review plugin next
    -   ojs/omp bugs

-   bruno
    -   stats fixing
    -   ui/ux work (see below)

-   brian
    -   working with plum analytics, niso sushi group, trying to stay standards-based; PKP has ALM plugin; U of T did some sushi work for Synergies; York doing work on how to represent stats in OJS; James will send around contact information.

-   clinton
    -   copyright metadata bug; URI handling issues;
    -   security implications of "x-forwarded for"(?), causing dropped sessions?, mess up institutional subscriptions; session ip check should be disabled (may need to be changed to off by default)
    -   looking for feedback on bugzilla (better format?), OK to pester Alec directly, use tech mailing list

-   bozana
    -   server migration
    -   working with some new OMP users
    -   looking at OMP translation
    -   re-write of custom block plugin for OMP
    -   taking some vacation in next two weeks

-   marc
    -   migration from OJS 236 - 245
    -   working on admin locker plugin
    -   working with translation team (Spanish, Cat) for 245
    -   maint tasks on local environment

Plugin Gallery
--------------

-   many of us are working on plugins
-   need to better manage these
-   looking at wordpress as exemplar
-   issues of compatibility and trust (sense of trustworthiness but also welcome outside contributions)
-   levels of "certification" (maintained by PKP, reviewed by PKP, developed by PKP partner, working since 2.2, etc.)
-   include in OJS 3.0beta, OMP 1.1
-   github is preferred, but not required
-   Alec will write up some documentation, folks here can test with their plugins
-   feedback welcomed

UI/UX update
------------

-   [Stages](OJS_Workflow:_Stages "wikilink") complete and implemented

-   [Global Navigation](OJS_Navigation "wikilink") close to being complete
    -   awaiting further user feedback before confirming

-   [Dashboard](OJS_Dashboard "wikilink") still being worked on
    -   moved tasks from tab to global navigation
    -   initial user feedback positive
    -   continuing to prototype submission list

-   Working on the workflow pages, starting with [Copyediting](OJS_Workflow:_Copyediting_Page "wikilink") page
    -   currently developing mockups (see images in wiki)
    -   includes new concept of "discussion" section between copyeditor and auditors (typically authors)
    -   application to other parts of the workflow (layout editing, author/editor revision discussions, etc.)
    -   trying to reconcile John and Bruno's concepts for this, more work to do
    -   task column - add complete status - in green?
    -   more icons wherever possible (e.g., checkbox, not word "complete")
    -   remove numbering - not really steps
    -   will soon move to prototyping and further feedback requests

-   Next step will be to have all UI/UX developments to date included in a prototype and more fully test with users

Feedback / Q&A
--------------

-   working with how we use github
    -   good internal workflow now
    -   documentation: <http://pkp.sfu.ca/wiki/index.php?title=Github_Documentation_for_PKP_Contributors>
    -   still tricky for infrequent contributors; needs to be better documented, streamlined
    -   missing mechanism for feature branches, jason looking into this
    -   revising documentation, reconciling, linking to external docs, etc.
    -   Marc will contribute some documentation changes

-   best practice for missing translation?
    -   Leave blank if unsure; will get picked up by translator
    -   need to differentiate between human translations and machine translations

Next Meeting
------------

-   August 26, 2014 - 9am Pacific Time
-   Agenda is [available here](Tech_Committee_Agenda_26_Aug_2014 "wikilink").
