# 25 November 2014

In Attendance
-------------

Present: Jason, Alec, James, Marc, Clinton, Kevin Regrets: Brian, Jeanette, Marco

* * * * *

Hangout URL: <https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/gvyyi6ghel55hiamx5dws4id7ia?hl=en>

Quick Updates
-------------

-   Alec Smecher (PKP)
    -   Moved plugin tests to plugin directories; plugins in separate repositories can now include tests (e.g. [Static Pages plugin](https://github.com/pkp/staticPages/tree/master/tests/functional))
    -   Experimenting with Composer (more below)
    -   Experimenting with [pdf.js plugin](https://github.com/asmecher/pdfJsViewer)
-   Clinton Graham (Pitt)
    -   Created/changed some validators: ISNI (ORCID), InSet, Date (scoping)
        -   Thinking about adding some more: DOI (probably), UUID (probably just leave as a RegEx?)
    -   Created SUSHI-Lite classes
        -   TODO: COUNTER classes and report (JR1, AR1, etc.) classes. The question is when to start making these separate plugins instead of components of the sushiLite plugin.
-   Marc Bria (UAB)
    -   Meeting es_ES and ca_ES translators to define tasks and translation workflow.
    -   Meeting our journals to explain the benefits of OJS 2.4.5 and get their expert feedback.
    -   Adding git repositories as code source for mOJO (and testing submodules to manage plugins).

Release Progress (Alec)
-----------------------

-   OMP 1.1.1
    -   [Remaining entries](http://pkp.sfu.ca/bugzilla/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=REOPENED&product=OMP&query_format=advanced&version=1.1.1)
    -   Currently in translation; this is expected to be a brief round.
    -   James: Talking to Marco about coordinating the update. Will double check the test translation install. Believes that we are good to go.
    -   Bruno spending time putting together regression testing tools. Has created a plugin that logs emails in the database, so testing can verify that the emails contain the correct URLs

-   OJS 3.0beta
    -   Still trying to secure feedback on copyediting before a release date can be estimated.
    -   Have been discussing feature set for OJS 3.0 final release internally.
    -   Will have a feature complete workflow for 3.0 release
    -   Will be suitable for production use, exception being subscriptions
    -   Once 3.0 is released, hopefully will receive interest/funding for certain plugins
    -   Some critical/commonly used plugins like static pages already done.

PKP Development Sprint Follow-up (Alec)
---------------------------------------

-   Follow-up: using git issues instead of Bugzilla [Google doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Q7qKoI4N3pain0E2E1Iq-0h3-X_EqyFxLmaljDquKow/edit#heading=h.amjf4r54it2)
    -   We will migrate to git issues after the release of OMP 1.1.1.

UI/UX (Alec / Kevin)
--------------------

Sender Protection Framework (SPF) Email Changes (Alec)
------------------------------------------------------

-   Committed to OJS for release in version 2.4.6.

Translation Management and Merging (Marco)
------------------------------------------

-   Marco has updated the wiki.

Recommended Patches List
------------------------

-   No landing last time on regular releases
-   Update procedures have become minimal, less ADODB requirements now.
-   Perhaps pursue a wordpress-style upgrade procedure?
-   Problem: we have no upgrade test suite. Manual testing for upgrades can be error prone
-   Clinton will summarize discussions for tech list

Composer for managing 3rd-party libraries (Alec)
------------------------------------------------

-   See email circulated on tech committee list

Next Meeting
------------

-   January 13th, 2015 at 9:00 AM PST
