# 28 October 2014

In Attendance
-------------

Present: Alec Smecher (PKP); Jeanette Anne Hatherill (OCUL); Brian Gregg (Pittsburgh); Clinton Graham (Pittsburgh); Marc Bria (UAB); Jason Nugent (PKP)

Introductions
-------------

-   Jeanette Anne Hatherill (Technical Committee Chair)
-   Marco Tullney (Translations)

Quick Updates
-------------

-   Clinton Graham (Pittsburgh)
    -   SUSHI-Lite plugin, c.f. [NISO working group](http://www.niso.org/workrooms/sushi/sushi_lite/)
        -   cleanup of usageStats and COUNTER plugins
        -   new generic plugin to support SUSHI-Lite
        -   will need to modify Stats Framework to accommodate customer/requester aggregation
        -   (Alec suggests talking to Bruno; also watch out for German log anonymization requirements)
    -   Potential assistance with Shibboleth improvements
        -   Hopefully an incoming PR from an [external contributor](http://pkp.sfu.ca/support/forum/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=12915)
-   Alec Smecher (PKP)
    -   Rewrite of translation plugin (brief demo)
        -   Will ask for feedback from this group to translator plugin when it's ready
-   Jason Nugent (PKP)
    -   OMP 1.1.1 bugs; customizations:
        -   Objects for Review for AAA (external reviewer database integration)
        -   Metapress import plugin in progress
-   Marc Bria (UAB)
    -   Multilingual improvements: <http://pkp.sfu.ca/support/forum/viewtopic.php?f=9&t=13021&p=49967>
    -   Alternative MOJO-like solution: <http://pkp.sfu.ca/support/forum/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=13050&p=50164>

Release Progress
----------------

-   OJS 2.4.5
-   OMP 1.1.1 [Remaining entries](http://pkp.sfu.ca/bugzilla/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=REOPENED&product=OMP&query_format=advanced&version=1.1.1)
-   OJS 3.0beta

PKP Development Sprint Follow-up
--------------------------------

-   [Results blog post](https://pkp.sfu.ca/pkp-sprint-fall-2014-results/)
-   Proposal: Use git issues instead of Bugzilla [Google doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Q7qKoI4N3pain0E2E1Iq-0h3-X_EqyFxLmaljDquKow/edit#heading=h.amjf4r54it2)
    -   No objections, group will read proposal and comment. Alec will take this to the weekly PKP call for a final decision.

UI/UX
-----

-   Still trying to ensure we have enough comprehensive feedback on Copyediting proposal.
    -   Alec will follow up with Kevin and Jeanette re: possible OCUL contacts
-   Increased use of tabs to avoid modals on modals (per quick demo of new translation plugin)
-   Will work on a reference UI test/widget set for automated testing and coder reference purposes.

Sender Protection Framework (SPF) Email Changes
-----------------------------------------------

Email servers are starting to lean more heavily on SPF to decrease spam. This is causing OJS journals to face more delivery problems.

[Bug \#8085: Better SPF support](http://pkp.sfu.ca/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=8085) (Scheduled for OJS 2.4.6) [Bug \#8966: No-reply option](http://pkp.sfu.ca/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=8966) (Scheduled for OJS 2.4.6)

Currently suggesting 3 approaches:

-   If using your own domain, make sure you get one with mail service as an option (xyz@myjournal.com).
-   Use your own SMTP service (gmail, your institution, etc. -- whatever matches the primary contact address you want to use).
-   Use a noreply@xyz.sfu.ca "From" address. This would currently require a modification or plugin, as OJS currently uses the "primary contact" email and making that a no-reply will obviously be confusing. I'd suggest we can add a global configuration option that takes precedence. (See bug \#8966.)

Translation Management and Merging
----------------------------------

-   See Marco's proposal to rely more on the wiki. (Google group)
-   Group supports the proposal
-   Marco will work on a "reference" wiki page for German and perhaps Spanish
-   Marc will see about supplying an example reference from his Spanish translator group
-   Alec to follow up with James and Marco re: "core" translations and ensuring the proposal is OK.

Recommended Patches List
------------------------

See recent discussion from tech committee list. - Clinton: suggest abandoning patching entirely. Weekly release. - Alec: Consistent with long term goals, but requires an upgrade test suite. Maybe also ADODB removed first. Git provides good middle ground; distinction is whether we version it. However, continuous integration or scheduled frequent release is consistent with our long-term goal. - Bozana: Don't currently run upgrade scripts as it means downtime; - Clinton: Proposal: Dash releases vs. point releases. Dash releases don't get upgrade scripts; point releases do. - Alec: Propose Clinton dusts off the conversation for more circulation on the list.

Next Meeting
------------

Tuesday, November 25th, 9am Vancouver time