# 1 September 2015

In Attendance
-------------

-   Alec
-   Clinton
-   Jeanette
-   Bozana
-   Dulip
-   Marco

Quick Updates
-------------

-   Clinton
    -   SUSHI-Lite testing going well with Plum Analytics
        -   Needs a user-facing interface
        -   Needs locale key work
        -   Needs some optional security settings
    -   Import from spreadsheet to XML stymied (ambiguous grandchildren problem)
        -   Worked for the immediate project
        -   Known bug for the general use case
    -   Considering testing of Lepidus "full journal transfer plugin"
        -   They've contacted PKP, we'll be getting back to them; suggest getting in touch, sending PRs e.g. to add documentation, etc.
-   Bozana
    -   Data Privacy for Statistics Plug-in:
        -   store salt somewhere (in a file) so that it will not be backed up
        -   adapt texts/explanations for the users
    -   Automatic (using a cron job i.e. Acron Plug-in) DOI registration to DataCite

Release Progress (Alec)
-----------------------

-   OJS 2.4.6-1 (or 2.4.7?) <https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/695>
    -   Issue requires a minor database change, so suggest going to OJS 2.4.7 (with automatic -1 build to follow soon after, at our discretion, to prove toolset)
-   OJS 3.0b
    -   Release went well. Need to figure out task-based workflow proposal as top priority for scoping 3.0.
-   OMP 1.2
    -   Hope to be able to release this in Q4. Currently porting UI/UX changes over from OJS 3.0b, with fixing/refinement to follow.

UI/UX (Alec / Kevin)
--------------------

-   Ongoing: galley cardinalities
-   Ongoing: Nate's task-based workflow proposal
-   Ongoing: forms, general UI/UX cleanup

PKP Conference / Sprint
-----------------------

-   PKP Network Discussion paper
    -   Suggest talking about this with James on the call next time.
-   Sprint blog post: <https://pkp.sfu.ca/pkp5-sprint-results-and-ojs-3-0-beta-1-release/>
-   Some continuing activity...
    -   UI/UX work following from sprint group
    -   Help presentation in application
    -   ...etc
-   Big thanks to everyone who participated in the sprint and conference.

Translation (Marco)
-------------------

-   new translations/last month: Serbian, Croatian, Afrakaans, Mongolian, RTL languages...
-   problems after moving keys from application (ojs) to pkp-lib
    -   Marco will create a github issue for further discussion
-   talking to translators about reviewing, updating translations and about translating documentation
-   Ongoing complications due to translators starting on wrong branch, missing opportunities to collaborate with already-started translations, etc.
-   Some translations are quite old, and some are never reviewed.
-   Suggest presenting completeness/incompleteness status somewhere. Marco will take a look, maybe calling on Alec for a bit of help if it's possible to present live data based on github branch.
-   Translation complexity: books seem like a bigger task, but they have clear context and are less fiddly; they're actually smaller translation tasks.

Community Forum
---------------

-   Need More Information. Spammers still coming, not sure whether account blocking is working.

Next Meeting
------------

-   Tuesday, Sept 29, 9am Vancouver time. Alec will initiate.
