# 10 March 2015

In Attendance
-------------

Quick Updates
-------------

-   Alec: Heavy lifting underway on what will be OJS 3.0
    -   will affect OJS 3.0b and also OMP
-   Clinton: Nothing of immediate interest.
-   James: Metapress migration project has been completed.

Release Progress (Alec)
-----------------------

-   development work is pretty much finished
-   lots of fixes from Bruno, Jason
-   OJS 2.4.6 in translation
-   will discuss release date on Friday based on translations

UI/UX (Alec / Kevin)
--------------------

-   Hope to start work on plugin gallery soon
    -   have made contact with a new developer w/Wordpress experience; we'll start him out with a contract to work on this initially
    -   can't start until the end of March, but may join us in some of these meetings as appropriate
    -   proving to be much better to manage plugins as separate repositories
-   Reviewed DOI exclusion work (started by Bozana, picked up and merged by Jason)
    -   also discussing in migrating the plugin stuff to OMP/OJS3 w/Bozana; she's currently very busy, but has a partial plugin implemented.
-   Theming infrastructure work
    -   bootstrap implementation
    -   focus has been on OMP/OJS3 branches
    -   focus on separating front- and back-ends
    -   Alec has been working on implementing a template file overwriter plugin
    -   talked with Jon Whipple; said we have to define a bit of a social contract with themers
    -   Alec has spent some time improving documentation
    -   Jon has been writing a few demo themes up
    -   hosting team also discussing this with another group
-   Heidelberg's reader front end work proceeds on OMP
    -   esp. around work of edited volumes, purchase of chapters, etc.
    -   sent in a pull request; review is in progress
-   Using remote files and services as submission files
    -   James will forward relevant emails; we'll include as a separate agenda item next time

Release Automation (Alec)
-------------------------

-   Preliminary work, including a script to automatically build releases: <https://github.com/asmecher/ojs/tree/i347-fix>
    -   we'll try this after OJS 2.4.6.
    -   would like to do more work on test releases
    -   database updates will trigger a non-point release
    -   could manage updates from git branch automatically (hosting)

New Forum
---------

-   Kevin: New forum is [live](http://forum.pkp.sfu.ca)
    -   welcome message, code of conduct is all up
    -   we still need to figure out our best practices
    -   will start tagging people if they are a good fit for answering a question
    -   will continue to use the old forum for the next month; at the end of the month, will disable logins but still keep it online

Markup Best Practices
---------------------

Translation (Marco)
-------------------

-   changing default behaviour when no translated key is available?

Next Meeting
------------

Tuesday, April 14