# 14 April 2015

In Attendance
-------------

Quick Updates
-------------

-   Clinton Graham (Pitt ULS)
    -   Still tasked with implementing ORCID in a non-PKP project
    -   Probably returning to OJS in a couple of weeks to begin testing/bugfixing the SUSHI-Lite plugin with Plum Analytics

-   Bozana Bokan
    -   planing the update to OJS 2.4.6 + starting to use git for hosted journals
    -   smaller OMP developments
    -   protection of privacy data
        -   plan for the next few months; for both OJS and OMP: statistics plugin; social media plugin; and Log in as option
    -   Felix is also working out very well.
        -   currently working on public files upload possibility; and import/export of email templates

-   Marc Bria
    -   Starting OJS 2.4.5 theming adaptation for papers.uab.cat.
    -   Helping OMP translators that next will start the testing process.
    -   Reviewing our journals to ensure metadata is complete.

-   James MacGregor/hosting
    -   We've been looking at using gitlabs to better manage our customized journal. Will work on documentation and send to group. Clinton, Marc and Bozana in particular are interested.

Release Progress (Alec)
-----------------------

-   OJS 2.4.6 went well: bug w/subscriptions already popped up.
-   OMP 1.1.2? May just jump to OMP 1.2 unless there's a particular call for a new stable release.
-   OJS 3.0 beta is still on track for August/conference release. Brian, Alec, Kevin have been meeting to ensure that our more important features are making it in.
    -   Have a new developer working on UI/UX stuff and plugin gallery for 3.0 (Nate).

UI/UX (Alec / Kevin)
--------------------

-   Progress on several elements (new submission list, copyediting discussion tool, etc.)
-   Working to separate reader interface templates and workflow interface templates
-   Early mockup of [new administrative interface ideas](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/9529729/pkp-admin-sketches-master/submission.html)
-   Will have some mockups of one or two reader interfaces soon
-   Moving toward [Gitbook](https://www.gitbook.com/@pkp) for PKP documentation; better version control (language, software version)
-   Looking at replacing XML-based internal application Help files with Gitbook docs
    -   Marco may be tasked to look at translation options :-)
-   Article display [discussions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VLI2XGq4GyzQ1_hqwUe-Wp2iwLotot-M9x7PedWSO8g/edit#heading=h.2x7uh9ibgmxv)
-   User registration [discussions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1h67U3hnfN-NGXlwzMIUGQ5pRIvLEYLUe_W1nIQ4YnqU/edit)
-   Report on Section 508/WCAG compliance: <http://scholarworks.csun.edu/handle/10211.3/134103>
    -   good at the letter, but maybe not the spirit of the law
    -   reader front end: no problem
    -   screen readers: ok
    -   backend: some problems, we're investigating

-   Bootstrap: haven't firmly agreed that this will be a dependency, but we're looking at it.

Release Automation (Alec)
-------------------------

-   Ready to perform first test release of OJS 2.4.6-1 when the patch set is appropriate.

Translation (Marco)
-------------------

-   Nothing major ATM.
-   Received Arabic translation.
-   Have been encountering more frequent situations where someone who is not our main translator sends in a suggested change. Will have to develop some sort of workflow for managing this, so that main translators are included.

New Forum (Alec/Kevin)
----------------------

-   Old forum now to be closed.
-   Clinton: workflow has changed substantially. Previously, used RSS/email. Some challenges to move over and keep up with information flow.
    -   Email tweaking may help - there are listserv-like options available, apparently.
-   Bozana: some concern that the one forum for all software may be problematic.
    -   We're still waiting for a proper tag plugin to be made stable, at which point folks can tag their threads with the software they're using.
-   Marco: also having problems moving over to new workflow. Thinks the new situation with the one forum etc. is ambitious, but working well.
-   Marc: It will take some time to switch over to this environment; it's a whole new environment, and we have to learn it. Maybe still too soon to tell how well it's working. Likes a lot writing, but feels is difficult to find posts and take a clear picture about how active is the community.

-   PKP team will discuss discoverability/readability/external tracking more on Thursday.
-   Will also decommission the old forum.

Next Meeting
------------

May 19, 9am PST