# 13 September 2016

In Attendance
-------------

AS, CF, CG, JH, KS, MB, MT, CM

Quick Updates
-------------

none

Release Progress (Alec)
-----------------------

-   OJS 3.0 released!
    -   Thanks and congratulations, everyone.
    -   Next milestones: 3.0.1 (soon), 3.1 (not quite as soon), 3.2 (later)
        -   Issues being allocated: bugfixes, quick submit plugin for 3.0.1; subscription/APC support for 3.1
    -   So far: minor platform issues, a few minor bugs, etc. Follow `ojs-stable-3_0_0` branch for details.
    -   First journals already migrated/launched; watching for interesting examples.
    -   Marco did lots of work on translations.
    -   Continuing to watch the forum and listen to users.

Translation (Marco)
-------------------

-   OJS 3 translations: release includes English, German, Portuguese, Spanish. Already demand for more reported in the forum.
    -   German and Spanish still lack a few strings.
-   Blog post coming up
-   Next on agenda:
    -   gitbook on translations
    -   engage more with community, engage responsible translators in reviewing smaller contributions by other translators
    -   identify translations good to have(e.g., see list of journals) and translations in particular good/bad shape
    -   scrap unused keys
-   Review of translator plugin with focus on UI/UX
    -   Could be a sprint work item.
-   Can the branches be cleaned up on GitHub? Alec says yes.
-   No contact with Université de Montréal; Érudit was waiting for a code freeze, but then was on vacation in August.
-   Marc reminded us that there is a dedicated Spanish/Catalan translator available; not on GitHub yet, but Marc will help that happen.
-   Next translations: Catalan, French, Russian, Arabic; probably Arabic will be next.
-   Alec wants to make long-term plans, *e.g.* transition to PO files. Alec and Marco will talk in October.

Documentation (Kevin)
---------------------

-   [Documentation Interest Group](https://github.com/pkp/documentation-interest-group/) has had a good response. First meeting last month; will try to meet monthly.
-   [New OJS 2.4.8 doc in Gitbook](https://www.gitbook.com/book/pkp/learning-ojs-2/details) nearly complete.
-   [New OJS 3.0 doc in Gitbook](https://www.gitbook.com/book/pkp/ojs3/details)
-   New version of Getting Found, Staying Found in progress
-   Clinton asked if documentation issues should be raised within the Doc IG project, or on `pkp-lib` like other issues?
    -   Kevin says Mike Nason will know, and will get an answer.
-   Alec notes the tech reference is out of date, and also made some point about Travis and documentation(?)

UI/UX (Kevin/Alec)
------------------

-   Listening to feedback on the OJS 3 release
-   Planning new round of usability testing in the fall
-   Contracted a designer for an alternative OJS 3 theme
    -   Front page [mockup is here](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/9529729/pku_1.jpg); he is now working on an article page mockup

Sprint (Alec)
-------------

-   Going over topics
-   Evaluating technology for remote participation

Other topics
------------

-   Marc raised an issue with many publishers in Spain forking the code to provide a citations badge that extends or abuses Dublin Core.
    -   Alec suggested the Driver and OpenAIRE plugins, both OJS 2.x, as examples for altering OAI output for national/regulatory compliance and definitely a plugin would be better than forking the code
    -   Marco suggested raising this on the forum for broader input and a general solution

Next meeting
------------

[Tuesday 18 October, 09:00 Pacific Time](Tech_Committee_Meeting_Minutes_18_October_2016 "wikilink")