# 15 March 2016

In Attendance
-------------

JH AS JM BB CM CG DW MT KG

Committee Meeting software
--------------------------

We’ll continue using Hangouts for meeting (may look at paid option eventually); will track minutes during meeting in Google Docs; Marco will migrate Docs notes over to Minutes on wiki.

Quick Updates
-------------

Heidelberg:

1.  OMP Interface and Plugin Development, Project application OJS  (Heidelberg)
2.  <https://github.com/UB-Heidelberg/vgWort>: provides public, private keys for manuscripts. Tracks usage for royalty purposes.
3.  <http://heiup.uni-heidelberg.de/catalog/book/43?lang=en>
4.  Writing a proposal for further funding for a .75 FTE OJS developer position.
5.  Also improving ORCID ID. \~6 months of programming for this, while Heidelberg only has one year of time.
6.  OMP interface (python) in <http://books.ub.uni-heidelberg.de/heibooks?lang=en>
7.  Github  https://github.com/UB-Heidelberg/UBHD-OMPHeibooks

Bozana:

1.  Some issues for OMP 1.2, Pub IDs and Crossref plugins for OJS 3.0 (Bozana)

Kenton:

1.  UofA have formally signed off on development partner paperwork.
2.  UofA/Juan/Jason will have a conversation soon about PKP ALM.
3.  We’ll also send out an email to schedule some informal group conversations around deployment mechanisms.

James:

1.  Work proceeds on COUNTER proposal for a client. Will involve Clinton in that.

Release Progress (Alec)
-----------------------

1.  OJS 2.4.9?
2.  OMP 1.2
3.  OJS 3.0

PKP Network/Index (James/Kevin)
-------------------------------

1.  Has slowed down a little bit; Kevin will be putting up a blog post to encourage interest.

Help / Manuals (Kevin/Alec)
---------------------------

1.  OMP 1.2 manual git repository: <https://github.com/pkp/omp-user-guide>
2.  Will continue work on this at the sprint.
3.  Possible blog post incoming.
4.  It’ll be in 1.2 for sure.

Translation (Marco)
-------------------

1.  Erudit is willing to work on fr_CA translations of OJS and maybe OMP.
2.  OJS recent locale updates: large pt_PT update
3.  OMP recent locale updates: ca_ES (new locale), es_ES, de_DE
4.  some pressure regarding OJS 3 from early adopters
5.  preparing for OMP release (and by that learn sth for OJS 3)

Marco and Marc will be doing some pair work on porting oxs-dev translations to master. This will be a lot of work (and fun).

Note regarding PO files/gettext: we had a contractor look at this before, with limited results. We’ll dig the report up and pass it on. We are open to moving to something OSS to manage this. Also important: GitHub integration.

1.  Marco suggests that context is still very important to consider when translating.

UI/UX (Kevin/Alec)
------------------

1.  Proceeding, also w/a member from UofA.

Primarily on OMP: <http://omp.sfu.ca/uiux>

Sprint
------

1.  April 25/26
2.  We need to pass along the recommended hotels (Alec).
3.  Telepresence: wifi and a projector.
4.  Request: share suggested topics \*before\* the event starts, so that remote participants can know what to join.
5.  We’ll share Google Docs w/subgroups as we have done before. Remote participants can then follow along.
6.  Registration is live (see main PKP website): Blog: <https://pkp.sfu.ca/2016/02/10/pkp-sprint-montreal/Registration> and topic proposals: <https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1xws02wNXJge2pIuuw80UC9pdwyxwukaNSoPTmzrDdQM/viewform>
7.  Suggestion to have a chat available, maybe using IRC.

Next meeting
------------

April 12, 9am PST