# 15 November 2016

In Attendance
-------------

Alec, Chris, Duplip, Jeanette, Marc, Clinton

Quick Updates
-------------

-   Clinton Graham (Pitt)
    -   Allowing plugins to inherit settings from site to context
        -   <https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/1923>
        -   Questions on data conventions and UI/UX - can be sent to forum, and other available channels as long as they're cross-linked
        -   Lost in the weeds of GridHandler RoleAssignments
    -   Release Notifications
        -   Concern about how Admins, Managers, Editor, etc. are notified of new and changed features and configuration
            -   tags for features and bug fixes - Alec is looking for feedback
        -   Does this tie into the development pipeline?
            -   there might be uses for Github projects as well as Github tags.

Release Progress (Alec)
-----------------------

-   3.0.1 release from master branch scheduled for today. Implications for OMP release as 3.1 in parallel
    -   When should people be migrating? Wait for 3.1 if you need subscription module, 3.0.0 is stable so you can go ahead now with some test migration. Always do a complete backup including files directory

Translation (Marco)
-------------------

Documentation
-------------

-   Last DIG meeting postponed
-   work will pick up again soon with Kevin back from vacation

UI/UX
-----

-   Bootstrap theme plugin for OMP? (Chris)
    -   Any interest in collaborating on this?
        -   flag Nate on this for a sense of what needs to be done
        -   3.1 release may make this work repeated
-   Discussions with UAlberta on OMP coming

Other topics
------------

-   Sprint blogposts are going up soon, API one is nearly ready

Next meeting
------------

December 13th 9 am Vancouver time