# 21 June 2016

In Attendance
-------------

Introductions
-------------

-   Welcome, Carola!

Quick Updates
-------------

-   Travel (Alec)
    -   Visited Freie Universität Berlin, GESIS (OSCOSS) in Cologne, Heidelberg, ELPUB (Göttingen), AAUP (Philadelphia)
        -   AAUP was an eye-opener: much more of a distinction between journal publishing and press management. Press management still focuses significantly on sales, marketing, etc. - open access is not a factor for the most part.
    -   Most frequent subjects: API; ORCID; OJS 3.0; OMP OAI.

-   SPF Fix:
    -   Tested by Pitt, soon to be committed by Jason.

Release Progress (Alec)
-----------------------

-   OMP 1.2 post-release:
    -   Still awaiting confirmation from Google Scholar that OMP indexing has been enabled

-   OJS 2.4.8-1
    -   SPF changes complete and tested. Just needs to be committed.
    -   LOCKSS PLN fixes added
    -   Will be releasing from the OJS 2.4.8 STABLE branch, rather than dev.
    -   We should be able to release this before the next technical committee meeting.

-   OJS 3.0
    -   Overhaul of production / galleys merged (Alec)
    -   PID work merged; CrossRef work proceeding (Bozana)
    -   Still targeting summertime, but the issue count had better start going down!

Help / Manuals (Kevin/Alec)
---------------------------

-   We want to start automating our screenshot process (using Selenium), so that we have automatically maintained screenshots for documentation.
-   We've forked the OMP 1.2 gitbook to update for OJS 3.0.

Translation (Marco)
-------------------

-   major task right now: prepare for OJS 3 release, focus on core locales

`  * decided on a workflow`
`  * starting from ojs-dev-2_4 branch (OJS), master branch (pkp-lib)`
`  * remove obsolete keys`
`  * ask translators to complete locale`

-   working my way through some OJS 2 additions

-   Alec is still keeping an eye on .po file technology developments, but this isn't for 3.0.

UI/UX (Kevin/Alec)
------------------

-   UI/UX testing on Production is next. Some submission stage cleanup stuff.

Forum
-----

-   have been seeing quite a bit of spam lately. Alec and Clinton have been flagging and deleting. Alec will bring this up internally and will report back.
-   Clinton saw that a poster had posted an ambiguous request for help months ago, and then went back and edited it to display spam.
-   Other lightweight how-to content is also being posted.

Crossref updates
----------------

-   OJS 2.4.8 refinements by Bozana are currently being tested by Mike Nason, James.
-   OJS 3.0 refinements to be discussed internally this week.
-   Dulip is ready to manage the OMP DOI port.

Next meeting
------------

July 19, 9am Vancouver time.