# 16 August 2016

In Attendance
-------------

Quick Updates
-------------

Dulip, Heidelberg

-   Progress on OMP Python-Frontend: citeproc-js intergration[1](https://github.com/UB-Heidelberg/citeproc-js-wrapper|ink), expand meTypeset
-   Intergration-tests for latex ( latex -\> TEI XML -\> JATS XML ) into the book publishing workflow. [2](http://www-sop.inria.fr/marelle/tralics/|tool)
-   OMP tests, OAI interface

Email / SPF redux (Clinton)
---------------------------

-   Recent/pending changes at some big providers may necessitate a reversion in OJS 2.4.8-1's email behavior: <https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/1723>
    -   Gmail (for example) states: "All unauthenticated messages from these [eBay, Paypal, and Google] domains will be immediately sent to the spam folder."
    -   Email may pass SPF, but still fail DKIM and DMARC
    -   DKIM should not affect the product (probably?)
    -   DMARC may affect the product - testing workaround via <https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/1723>
        -   Currently satisfies DMARC, but still sometimes gets spamtrapped in Gmail testing
        -   DKIM setup passing, with DMARC failing, may be a viable fix. Clinton investigating.
        -   James will follow up w/PKP about whether we're sending DKIM-signed or DMARC-compatible email.
        -   Alec can review the patch once complete.
        -   Possible DKIM check tool: <http://mxtoolbox.com/dkim.aspx>

Release Progress (Alec)
-----------------------

-   OJS 3.0
    -   Scheduled for August 31st
    -   Crucial work: upgrade scripts and plugin work
-   OJS 2.4.8-1
    -   Released August 3rd

Help / Manuals (Kevin/Alec)
---------------------------

Outstanding work:

-   Internal help files: lots of changes still, so will need some cleanup before release.
-   Same with email templates, esp. those that have instructions.

Documentation Interest Group:

-   Lots of volunteeers.
-   First meeting: August 31, 7am PDT.
-   Lots to do, more and less technical.

Translation (James/Alec on behalf of Marco)
-------------------------------------------

-   German, Spanish, Portuguese, and hopefully French will be available for 3.0.
-   No firm locale freeze for release.
    -   In the future: maybe treat translations like plugins, so they are managed outside of the main repo, so they can be managed/translated separately (incl. post-release).

UI/UX (Kevin/Alec)
------------------

-   Over the past 8 months we've tested on: registration; submission; review; copyediting; layout.
-   Special thanks to Sonia Bentz and University of Alberta for leading these.
-   We have a graphic designer to develop a new theme for OJS 3; hoping that it'll be there for release.

Early adopters:

-   Putting together an OJS 3 early adopters group.
    -   If you know of anyone who is really interested in OJS 3, and would want to do some upgrade testing, let us know.
-   Reconnect with OMP 1.1 early adopters to move them to OMP 1.2.
-   Will put together an XML typesetting early adopters group as well.

Sprint (Alec)
-------------

-   Blog post out already. Please register! We'll also be canvassing for topics.

Next meeting
------------

-   Sept. 13, 9am PDT.
