# 12 January 2016

In Attendance
-------------

Quick Updates
-------------

Release Progress (Alec)
-----------------------

-   OJS 2.4.8:
    -   Schedule it to the end of January
    -   don't wait for translations and don't bother the translators much about this release, Marco will send an e-mail however
-   OMP 1.2:
    -   Issues list still non-trivial, but lots of activity
    -   Working on help (see below)
    -   Working on results from UI/UX testing (see below)
    -   Still targeting Q1
    -   Need to plan concretely for translations.
-   OJS 3.0:
    -   Per OMP 1.2
    -   Bozana working on CrossRef/DOI

PKP Network/Index (James)
-------------------------

Index:

-   Michael added custom block manager plugin, static pages plugin to OHS
-   60 users now
-   19 publications now in system
-   working well
-   SFU will be adding our own hosted journals over the next few weeks to further populate the index
-   we'll start sending out blog posts/tweets on specific milestones (10,000 records, 50,000 records, etc.)

Network:

-   Kevin, James, Brian met to discuss current state of the proposal.
    -   have decided to break down and rebuild the propsal in a new draft, will report back soon.

Help / Manuals (Alec)
---------------------

-   Work in progress: <https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/1032>
-   Gitbook backed
-   Context provided in code e.g.: \$this-\>setHelpFilePage(\$templateMgr, 'chapter_1_introduction.md\#secondBit');
    -   Is this the best way to do it? Requirements:
        -   Easily translated (via Gitbook)
        -   Machine checkable (for missing mappings, etc)
    -   Anchors could be a problem, maybe to split the pages, Marco will take a look
-   OMP 1.2 probably not in the cards for built-in manual, but OJS 3.0?
-   Content:
    -   All context sensitive help content from OJS 2.4.x is in Gitbook,
    -   Hack some content during the sprint, that is planed to be in Montreal in spring + find ways to participate in the event remotely

Translation (Marco)
-------------------

-   Translation updates:
    -   Lost translator from OpenEdition for fr_FR :-( Is there anybody else, that could overtake it? Maybe Erudit, that was maintaining fr_CA? Marco will ask.
-   Gitbooks, translation, and connecting applications with gitbooks
-   working on translation documentation, also sending information to translators' mailing list
-   OMP 1.2 translation planning: let's do it!
    -   Keep it small, only 4 languages: es, en, de, fr
    -   Find translators
    -   Translation start will be defined in the next TCM
    -   Take care of the OJS keys, that are in the PKP library and don't work well with OMP

UI/UX (Kevin/Alec)
------------------

-   Outcomes from December usability testing
-   <https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1RkZ0avL3UIUU-hUScbM77lLCsGtk-T2_dL-FEx_vKcM/edit#gid=0>
-   Another round soon - going further into workflow (maybe review, revisions, assigning a copyeditor)
-   Looking for people that didn't work with OJS but who have edited a journal

Next Meeting
------------

16 Februar 2106, 9am Vancouver time