# 25 July 2017

In Attendance
-------------

-   Alec (PKP)
-   Alex
-   Chris
-   Clinton
-   Dulip
-   Jeanette
-   Kenton
-   Marc
-   Marco
-   Svantje

Quick Updates
-------------

-   OJS 3.1 release delayed (Alec)
    -   Finally merging JavaScript (vue.js, API URL space, etc.) this week
    -   Travis testing upgraded to new Trusty image to work around PHP version mismatch/weird performance quirk
    -   Subscriptions partially merged (administration back-end); work on business logic/front end continues
    -   New release date will be established shortly.

Tech Committee Chair
--------------------

-   Huge thanks to Jeanette for her 2+ years of chairing!
-   Clinton will be stepping up starting with our next meeting -- thanks in advance to Clinton too.

Translation (Marco)
-------------------

### OJS3

-   two possibly colliding Ukrainian translations for OJS3
-   Spanish translation of OJS3 done (AFAIK)
-   German, Russian up to date
-   update on release date for OJS3?
-   Portuguese (pt_PT) translation just came in
-   Czech translation awaiting final merge (https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/2605)
-   see GitHub issues

### OMP

-   offer for an Arabic translation of OMP

### Translation tools

-   problems with translator plugin
-   trying to move to 3rd party tools, based on .po files

Documentation
-------------

-   Translation issues
    -   Gitbook can be cumbersome to work with; what about other options? Changes planned?
        -   Plan to back everything in github as far as Alec knows
        -   Perhaps host HTML mirror of content on PKP site
        -   No plans to move away from gitbook, as the toolset is standard. Just ensuring robustness.

Sprint/Conference
-----------------

-   Sprint (Alec)
    -   Expecting a larger group than usual; we may split into two rooms
    -   Email with shared document went out yesterday; Slack invites in progress
    -   PKP team may not be large enough to place a member in each group as usual; please consider yourselves ambassadors!
    -   Roger Gillis is available to manage/coordinate the second room.
    -   Jeanette is also attending and can coordinate.

Other Topics
------------

### Extending metadata schemes (Dulip)

-   Alternative titles, Title-transliterations for journal articles (for languages not specified in ojs 3)
-   Is it already possible, without adding a dummy language ? if not what would be the best-strategy advice ?
    -   Something like writing a plugin to extend submission_settings / metadata_descriptions ?
    -   Alec recommends a code contribution to be merged in directly. These are logical improvements and have been requested elsewhere.
-   Marc: Import/export. Why is it so picky that XML data matches the journal language configuration?
    -   Alec: Should perhaps not be so strict. This isn't a risk for introducing e.g. data errors, but content in unsupported languages might just not be presented until the language is enabled.

### Versioning (Svantje)

-   planned approach: insert changes after release of 3.1
-   plugins need to be adopted (https://github.com/lilients/ojs/projects/1) - how to manage?
-   inform developer at conference

### Solr (Svantje)

-   <https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/2575>
-   approach: update old plugin to OJS 3, maybe add: browsing (by tags, etc.), search by section, etc.

### docker4ojs (Marc)

-   State of the art: What other FLOSS projects are doing? Good enough for production?
-   Architecture change to move from mojo to dojo.

Next Meeting
------------

29 August 2017, 9am Vancouver