# 18 April 2017

In Attendance
-------------

Alec, Alex, Chris, Clinton, Dulip, Jeanette, Kenton, Marc, Marco, Svantje

Quick Updates
-------------

-   PKP
    -   Working towards OJS 3.1; see <https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/milestones> for milestones. Release delayed to summer.
        -   API
        -   Subscriptions/payments (copyright is blocking some payment code, potential need for a clean-room rewrite)
        -   Lots of cleanup (e.g. strict mode warnings; constructor syntax; etc. -- thanks all)
        -   Lots more

-   UAB (Marc)
    -   Who is who in JATS?
        -   <https://spback.uab.es/owncloud/index.php/s/3is8CkJa1dFBXII> (temporary link)
        -   This will be published in the forum when ready.

Translation (Marco)
-------------------

-   longer locale names are enabled, schema we agreed on is sr_RS@cyrillic (for a locale variant "cyrillic"). Enabled us to merge the updates for two new Serbian translations in Latin and Cyrillic script. See <https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/1911> and the sr_RS updates. Thanks, Kassim!
-   Updates to OJS 3 user guide (Spanish).
-   New volunteers working on translating documentation books.

Documentation (Kevin)
---------------------

-   Translations of manuals have been coming in. Hoorah!

UI/UX (Kevin/Alec)
------------------

-   Next round of formal UI/UX testing will be with OJS 3.1

Other topics
------------

Alec:

-   Copyrights/licenses (awaiting information)

Svantje:

-   documenting of results of previous phase in PKP wiki (e.g. versioning)?
    -   Wiki is cluttered, but is probably the best place for now.
-   new project phase ojs-de.net, 1 year, Heidelberg + Berlin
-   current task: improving imprint view <https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/2441>
-   other tasks: improve email template management, adapt OpenAIRE plugin, Solr and other features (?) for OJS 3
    -   Alec suggests considering work on any of the plugins excluded in the OJS3 build script.

Kenton:

-   EZID DOI Plugin and OJS 3 - anybody working on this?
    -   VTUL started this, but is not actively using it. Pitt has been a contributor, but will not be moving forward to OJS3 in the near term.

Chris:

-   Working on Shibboleth for OJS 3 with Clinton (may leapfrog Clinton's prerequisite hell)
-   Working (slowly) on Bootstrap 3 for OMP 3 (based on the OJS3 work)

Dulip:

-   Looking at developing the ORCID connections for OJS3
    -   Note the prior work of <https://github.com/pkp/orcidProfile> (profile integration)
    -   And prior Sprint efforts: <https://github.com/ulsdevteam/pkp-oauth> (authentication)

Next Meeting
------------

May 23, 2017 @ 9am Vancouver time