# 20 June 2017

In Attendance
-------------

-   Clinton, Svantje, Alec, Kenton, Chris

Quick Updates
-------------

-   PKP (Alec)
    -   PKP merge for Javascript framework efforts coming soon
    -   Svantje and Bozana working on versioning merge (hope to include in 3.1)
    -   Clinton recommends also merging <https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/2444> (Alec will try)
    -   OJS 3.1 likely to be further delayed (still \~90 issues open, some will be deferred), but will shoot to have it ready for the conference.

Translation (Marco)
-------------------

-   OJS 3.1
    -   complete translations for OJS 3.1: German, Russian
    -   incoming updates: Spanish, French, Portuguese, Czech, Catalan - will open issues when receiving them so we can track those
    -   in progress, but probably not for the release: Swedish

-   OMP
    -   in progress: Spanish, German

Documentation
-------------

-   NTR.

Sprint/Conference
-----------------

-   Sprint topics being circulated (please participate via email!)

Other Topics
------------

### Solr Plugin for OJS 3 (Svantje)

-   <https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/2575>
-   Can I use a solr php library? <https://wiki.apache.org/solr/SolPHP>
    -   Yes!
-   Can I add it via composer?
    -   Yes! Alec is adding composer.json dependencies within the Paypal plugin as part of the subscriptions rewrite and will add tooling to the OJS build for this, but...
    -   As this will probably be distributed via the plugin gallery, your own build process would involve running Composer prior to building the tarball.

### How do we want notifications of security issues?

-   Clinton: See e.g. <http://forum.pkp.sfu.ca/t/vulnerabilities-found-while-the-penetration-test/31681>
-   Alec: Any way is good; some kind of private contact for critical issues, otherwise e.g. forum is fine.
-   Alec: Automated tools tend to generate a lot of false positives, and two experiences with several-hundred-page reports cost a lot of time for little benefit. Suggest encouraging the reporter to do some work weeding wheat from chaff, perhaps working on audit tool configuration.
-   Alec: But we're always willing to receive and investigate reports as a backstop.

Next Meeting
------------

July 25, 2017, 9:00am Vancouver time.