# 31 October 2017

In Attendance
-------------

-   Alec, Clinton, Brian, Dulip, Jeanette, Kenton, Kevin, Svantje

Quick Updates
-------------

-   **Question Every Month**
    -   What have you been working on lately?
-   **Question of the Month**
    -   How far removed are you from the publishing process?

### Chris M. (in absentia)

What have you been working on lately?

> W.r.t. PKP, minor stuff: brining the Shibboleth plugin up to standards for release with 3.1, updating our production systems.

QotM:

> I’m co-author on a bunch of stuff, but mostly I am the tech person for our publishing infrastructure.

### Marc B. (in absentia)

What have you been working on lately?

> Working in the OJS 3.x migration (form a 2.4.x) of the 40 journals of our service. We are moving from a classical LAMP stack to a docker approach, developing helper scripts to automatize tedious sysadmin tasks (create, backup, destroy, migrate, test...). A new theme also need to be implemented. Default theme looks as the parent candidate. We like to think we will finish all this before the end of the year. We are also working on ca_ES and es_ES translations. We missed to translate plugins but we got help from community translators. They translate over PKP repository, so right now, as far as we don't have write access to the repo, we only can comment (o create a branch over the contrib and send a new PR to PKP). Thinking in the right workflow here. Looks like keeping our own repo with translations (and PR to PKP from there) will be the right way.

How far removed are you from the publishing process?

> I do help desk so I'm not as far as I like.

Are you a scholarly author or editor yourself?

> I reviewed a few papers sometime ago... but not enough to say yes.

Do you fall back on authors or editors as resources as you consider the technical challenges in working with OJS / OMP / etc.?

> Yes.

### Alex M. (in absentia)

What have you been working on lately?

> We were waiting for the 3.1 release to start upgrading our OJS installation. Now that it's already among us, our IT team is working on database dump -- it's a huge database with over 100 journals so it takes a while. I should have a more solid update by the next tech meeting.

How far removed are you from the publishing process?

> I don't work within the publishing process in itself but I have to be close enough in order to help our journals. The more I know about it, the more I can understand how they work and give them the right advice.

Do you fall back on authors or editors as resources as you consider the technical challenges in working with OJS / OMP / etc.?

> Yes, absolutely.

### Marco T.

What have you been working on lately?

> I have been busy with the review, cleanup, editing, committing and merging of locale updates for OJS3. In the back of my head thinking about how we will get to a stricter and better workflow where not so much time is wasted on tedious and error-prone processes.

How far removed are you from the publishing process?

> I am close to the publishing process.

Are you a scholarly author or editor yourself?

> Yes, both.

Do you fall back on authors or editors as resources as you consider the technical challenges in working with OJS / OMP / etc.?

> Yes. from time to time.

### Dulip Withanage

What have you been working on lately?

> I have been doing technical project management, writing specifications, planning the OJS 2 to 3 Update, consulting authors and also coding the xml process workflow for monographs.

How far removed are you from the publishing process?

> I am direcly involved in publishing process.

Are you a scholarly author or editor yourself?

> no

Do you fall back on authors or editors as resources as you consider the technical challenges in working with OJS / OMP / etc.?

> Yes, most of the time.

### Kenton G

What have you been working on lately?

> On the OJS front - completed move to single instance from multi, custom domains for journals, planning for migration to 3.1 in Winter/Spring 2018

How far removed are you from the publishing process?

> I deal more with IT operations. Others deal more directly with publishing process. The Ualberta Press recently merged with the library so I think there will be more direct contact moving forward.

Are you a scholarly author or editor yourself?

> no

### Clinton

-   Still stuck in reporting hell
-   Active with the community on the forum

### James

-   OJS 3.1:
    -   Doing internal client testing; mostly either very old or very customized installs, so productive testing on "stock" 3.1 is limited
    -   Doing some fresh installs for testing; tested themes; may have a few minor UI issues

### Svantje

-   Not so much direct contact with users; colleague mostly does this

Docker
------

-   Alex G. (PKP) has apparently been tinkering with Docker as well -- contact him for a configuration
-   An official Docker image from PKP would be nice!

Release Progress
----------------

-   OJS 3.1 released Oct. 23
    -   Lots of new features: API, subscriptions, section editor recommendations, vue.js/new submission lists, ...
    -   Watching bug list for anything justifying an OJS 3.1.0-1 build; otherwise next will be first simultaneous OJS/OMP release (3.1.1)

Translation
-----------

-   Are the plans for the translation of the OJS 3 gitbook into german <https://www.gitbook.com/book/pkp/ojs3/details/en>? (Svantje)

Documentation
-------------

-   Always taking volunteers
-   This is a period of relative stability, so good opportunity to update/translate docs
-   Will continue trying to get MNason in for a pitch from the documentation working group
-   Technical Reference
    -   Alec will put together a draft list of necessary tasks for next meeting, to see whether we can kick this off and canvas for volunteers

UI/UX
-----

-   Shout-out to Sonya at UofA!
-   Looking to set up sessions in November
    -   Considering submission lists
    -   Maybe subscriptions, though that may be a little raw yet
    -   (Alec made a pitch already for notifications/emails but that may require some internal work first)
    -   Other suggested areas welcome
    -   Watch for a call for participation -- PKP social media and listservs

Other topics
------------

-   started a guide: How to upgrade an OJS 2 plugin to OJS 3 <https://pkp.sfu.ca/wiki/index.php?title=How_to_upgrade_an_OJS_2_plugin_to_OJS_3> - Additions and feedback are welcome (Svantje)
    -   Where should this live?
        -   We have other related docs that need a home too ("how to add a plugin to the plugin gallery")
        -   We'd like to retire the wiki
        -   Depending on length, documentation might be moved into a gitbook
        -   Documentation interest group considering venues.
-   Slack channel invites beyond PKP team/committees
    -   OK to experiment
    -   James and Kevin will talk implications e.g. potential Slack account upgrade

Next Meeting
------------