# 29 August 2017

In Attendance
-------------

-   Alec, Clinton, Alex, Kenton, Marco, Svantje, Dulip

Quick Updates
-------------

-   Question of the Month: What PKP products are you using, and for how long?
    -   Clinton: OJS (mostly 2.x; soon to launch first 3.0); OMP (1 book). OCS decommissioned. Just starting OTS stack.
    -   Alec: We use all apps, obviously -- notably OHS for the PKP index. Moving apps to OJS 3, which requires some server environment gymnastics.
    -   Alex: OJS (2.x to 3.x upgrade); now OMP for pilot project.
    -   Kenton: OJS for over 10 years; 40 journals. Offer free hosting for Canadian journals. Still on 2.x, hoping to move to 3.x this fall. EZID is a holdout. Used to run OCS but that has been decommissioned. Hoping to get into OMP soonish.
    -   Marco: OJS for 9 years; translation as major recent (ongoing) contribution. Still primarily OJS 2.x but quite comfortable with OJS 3.x. Experimenting with harvester. Following XML parsing tools with interest.
    -   Svantje: FU Berlin uses OJS since 2006; more recently OMP. Several pilot projects.
    -   Dulip : API Sprint requirements into markdown. [Work in progress](https://github.com/withanage/heimpt/blob/master/static/docs/jats_requirements.md) Lens-viewer extended further to support [bits](https://github.com/UB-Heidelberg/UBHD-Lens)

Sprint Debrief
--------------

-   Huge thanks, everyone! Biggest group yet (60 participants), very successful and smooth.
-   Alec/Kevin will be in touch soon to "encourage" team leads to write up blog posts.
-   Very few remote participants. Need to continue considering tools.

Release Progress
----------------

-   OJS 3.1 just scheduled for October 20th. Locale freeze begins September 22.
-   Bozana just finished coding Section Editor recommendations, one of the big requests.
-   OJS 3.1 will include a lot of new dependencies (Slim, vue.js, etc.), so watch your server environment.
-   OJS 2.4.9: NTR.
-   Planning to continue with our simultaneous release intentions for OJS and OMP beginning with 3.1.1, which is the next to follow OJS 3.1.0.

Translation
-----------

-   OJS3
    -   Spanish translation updated (thanks Marc and Jordi)
    -   Russian continuously updated
    -   will take another look at German

-   problems with conflicting translations
-   cannot put that much work into manually uploading & merging, need to refer people to GitHub
-   after OJS3 release: have to think about changes to workflow (technical), but also organizational (locale maintainers, more frequent updates, strong partners)
-   possible tools for translation management: <https://www.transifex.com/>, <http://pootle.translatehouse.org/>
-   alignment of OJS, OMP release dates: need to coordinate translators (when different for OJS and OMP)
-   OMP, OJS2, OCS: no updates

Documentation
-------------

-   Talk about this item's longevity next meeting.
-   Svantje: Guide for upgrading OJS 2 plugins to OJS 3 - writing in wiki?
-   Wiki? It's a tangle; what to do about it?
    -   Suggest trying to launch a plumbing task force after the documentation sprint group's report.

UI/UX
-----

-   No current activity, but the last testing round was very fruitful.

Other topics
------------

Next Meeting
------------

26 September 2017 @ 9am Vancouver