# 28 November 2017

In Attendance
-------------

-   Clinton, Chris, Dulip, James, Kenton, Kevin, Marc, Svantje, Alec

Quick Updates
-------------

-   **Question Every Month**
    -   What have you been working on lately?
        -   Svantje: upgrading shariff (https://github.com/lilients/shariff), conceptualization of improved email templates overview (https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/2906), struggling with solr (https://github.com/lilients/lucene) and planning OJS-de.net workshop in february
        -   Alex (via email): We have started the process of updating our OJS to 3.1 and our technical team is facing a few issues. The CSS doesn't seem to load properly. The issue has been posted in the forum: <https://forum.pkp.sfu.ca/t/css-loss-after-running-migrations-from-2-4-to-3-1/35725> The update process was detailed by out team here: <https://docs.google.com/a/scielo.org/document/d/1UKd7e2Tvl-ichcbgxT4ES0-YaqWNtwWHprfXV3CQbxg/edit?usp=sharing_eil&ts=5a1c35bb>
        -   Dulip : **Coding** [Lens](https://github.com/withanage/UBHD-Lens) : Published first OMP based [Hybrid publication including videos](http://heiup.uni-heidelberg.de/heiup/reader/index/310/310-68-79553-1-10-20171115.xml#figures) using [lens fork](https://github.com/withanage/UBHD-Lens) **Coordination** : Programmers network, OJS 3 Testing Plan (Heidelberg, CEDIS Berlin), Assisting [ORCID Plugin](https://github.com/UB-Heidelberg/orcidProfile) development, Assisting Documentation [TagCloud Plugin for OJS 3](https://github.com/UB-Heidelberg/ojs-keywordCloud/), relevant discussion [PKP-Forum](https://forum.pkp.sfu.ca/t/how-to-add-keywords-cloud-on-right-side-bar/25169)
        -   Kenton : OJS 3.1 migration planning, starting review of PII kept within journals with possible policy changes
        -   Marc: Interesting? docker4ojs (aka "dojo"). I enjoyed working on it and although it's still alpha, it's helping me a lot in the process of migration and testing of our journals. Now I can migrate a journal in 5 minutes... or test a new version and rollback if all crashes in the same time. With Alec and Marco we started conversations about the future of OJS translations. Promising tools rise up and I'm confident that soon we will be able to offer a better workflow and CAT support for OxS translators. I'm sure it will improve translation's quality and it will also help to engage more people to participate.
        -   Marco: translations, see below

-   **Question of the Month**
    -   What comes to your mind first when you think about PKP's strengths? What do you see as potential obstacles to PKP?
        -   Alex (via email): The first thing that crosses my mind is the fact that is a project towards Open Access. Much like SciELO, I think that is PKP's biggest strength. Regarding potentioal obstacles, I believe that PKP has to have a bigger presence in Latin America. Not talking about numbers, because we know how big OJS is here. But even though OJS is huge in Latin America, not everyone knows about PKP, its principles and why things are done the way they are done. For example, if the next PKP Conferences were to be held in southern countries, it's likely that more people would attend and thus PKP's message would get accross even more efficiently. Latin America was the birth of Open Access and I believe that PKP should target their efforts here in order to have a bigger presence here.
        -   Marc: About strengths: PKP is playing in a global universe and during the last decade earned an important position in the international scene. OJS is the facto standard for scientific journals and PKP is a reference in the open access movement. It's also relevant the strong commitment of the PKP people. They work very well together and new incorporations make the team even more solid. About the obstacles: Open Access movement is questioning the business that big publishers are making around knowledge. PKP is an essential tool to keep journal's open, so those publishers will fight hard to avoid the project's grow. Apart from this, in a society build upon individualism, we all know it's difficult to build community and make people understand they need to contribute to the project in someway, because products are for free, but are not cost-less
        -   Marco: strengths: diversity + community, very integrating, close to actual demands of academia, not for-profit driven; obstacles: competing with players that don't play nice, that favor the first look + proposing for new funding over maintaining a reliable software (and services)

Docker
------

-   Several Docker configs in circulation
-   Marc working on "dojo" toolset (more next month)
-   Proposal: Coordinate a subgroup to work through internally, then consider how to communicate more broadly (open meeting?)
    -   James will kick this off.

Release Progress
----------------

-   OJS/OMP 3.1.1 will probably come out next year (a few too many issues for this month, and December is December)
-   OJS 3.1.0-1 scheduled for \*this week\*!
    -   Addressing an issue with potential exposure of author identities to reviewers (https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/3070)
    -   Also collecting various bugs & translation updates in lieu of OJS 3.1.1 this year

Translation
-----------

-   Recently spoke with Kassim (PKP) about investigating Pootle and (probably) XLIFF. (Alec)
-   Translation updates for 3.1.0 and 3.1.0-1 (https://github.com/pkp/ojs/pull/1723, <https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/pull/3113>)
-   Will start working on translation workflow reform :) - and engage translators and developers
-   this includes:
    -   a locale management (who's going to decide what fits the existing translation?)
    -   tools (pootle, xliff, requirements for code changes, weblate, transifex, pontoon)
-   question: translation demo install? Don't re-open one unless we deem it necessary.
-   most important problem: translating with knowledge of the context, right now there's no guarantee that translators have any understanding of how their translations are going to be used within PKP applications,
-   one requirement: can people still submit via git?
-   Next steps: Marco/Marc will initiate an email conversation with Alec/Kassim.

Documentation
-------------

-   List of needed tasks for the Technical Reference documentation (from Alec) and solicitation of volunteers (from the group)
    -   Alec didn't do it yet.
-   Documentation working group is working through the assets
-   User-centric documentation going well, but need help with the technical documentation.

UI/UX
-----

-   James: Software as a Service options
    -   CLI additions (possibly using API)
        -   PKP will be adding some additional tools in the short term
            -   Interested in an OJS 3.x journal migration tool, but maintenance concerns mean it needs effort
        -   Medium-to-long term, we are looking at ways to bulk up the API and have command-line tools to access it.
    -   Enhancements to OJS as a shared hosting environment
        -   Currently collecting/investigating requirements
            -   Plugin management
            -   User management
            -   ...
        -   Please send us feedback on the areas where you run into problems with shared installs! Contact James.

Other topics
------------

-   Clinton: Report out from PKP Advisory Meeting
-   Kenton: Is there a master priority list for plug-in redevelopment for OJS 3.1? If a site wanted to take a lead with reworking a plug-in to work with 3.1, what is the best way to approach this to avoid duplication of effort?
-   Svantje: What data is transmitted via the beacon?
    -   A unique ID, used to disambiguate installs that might operate at multiple URLs (this is generated/used in the stats framework), and the OAI endpoint. Nothing else.

### Public files management (Svantje)

-   we want to add an overview of all public files (with the option to upload more that just images)
-   and add the option of a moderation (like the new user mediation developed at the last sprint)
-   what are PKP's plans? see also <https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/298>

Next Meeting
------------

Tuesday, Jan. 2, 9am Vancouver time