# 17 May 2018

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Alec, Clinton, Chris, James, Marc, Svantje
-   *Regrets: Alex, Dulip, Kenton*

Quick Updates
-------------

-   **Question Every Month**
    -   What have you been working on lately?
        -   (Dulip) Orcid Plugin [Features](https://github.com/UB-Heidelberg/orcidProfile/tree/member-api#features) [PR](https://github.com/pkp/orcidProfile/pull/39), Solr Search for OMP-Frontend (ctnd.)
        -   (Clinton) [ClamAV plugin for OJS2](https://github.com/ulsdevteam/pkp-clamav), [Akismet anti-spam plugin for OJS2](https://github.com/ulsdevteam/pkp-akismet), identification/cleanup of 60K+ spam user accounts.
        -   (James) GDPR code specs w/Antti-Jussi and Nate; Stats documentation (to be released this week); documentation hub w/PKP|PS and Nate
        -   (Alec) Lots of facilitation! Laval; ORCID; open reviews; etc.
        -   (Chris) [Code clean-up](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/3578)
        -   (Svantje): <https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/2072#issuecomment-389816292>
            -   Clinton asks about <https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/3674>
        -   (Alex): OJS 3.1.1 testing.

-   **Question of the Month**
    -   What can we be doing better to support our developers?
        -   (Dulip) Additionally to the gitbooks, may be add youtube video tutorials for frequently asked programming questions. (e.g. How to write a new theme or export plugin)
        -   (James) Documentation! Centralize, update, promote.
        -   (Alec) Slack invites
        -   (Svantje) Guide on how to start <https://ojsde.gitbook.io/ojs-how-to-start/>

GDPR Compliance
---------------

GitHub Project: <https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/projects/11>

-   Nearing completion for 3.1.1-1

Guide (V1): <http://docs.pkp.sfu.ca/gdpr_pkp_guide.pdf>

-   Minor updates, esp. re: cookies, to be added by next week

Release Progress
----------------

-   OJS/OMP 3.1.1-1 still a work in progress; 9 issues open, several to be deferred
-   Open Reviews contribution (Antti-Jussi) back-ported for release in 3.1.1-1

Translation
-----------

-   Alec continuing to handle merges/back-ports; master and 3.1.1 branches remain close together
-   Had an interesting conversation with ORCID re: Transifex

Documentation
-------------

UI/UX
-----

-   Launching a review on notifications/emails as a team exercise

Other topics
------------

Advisory Committee requests

-   Review the [terms of reference for the Technical Committee](https://pkp.sfu.ca/about/organization/technical-committee/), modeled on the [approved draft for the Advisory Committee](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yjX_BWY05XgzCsiOhlsLW5AILyV469Ib3aJJfHpN_q4/edit).
-   Any suggestions for incorporating CLAs into the pull request review process?
    -   Yes: <https://github.com/cla-assistant/cla-assistant>
    -   All more or less OK with this and technical implementation is essentially trivial; will pass it back to advisory.

Marc notes a review of Spanish translation and Catalan translation.

Next Meeting
------------

June 21st, 8am Pacific