# 16 August 2018

In Attendance
-------------

Alec, Alex, Chris, Clinton, Dulip, James, Kenton, Marc, Marco

Quick Updates
-------------

-   **Question Every Month**
    -   What have you been working on lately?
        -   Alec:
            -   XML workflow plugins
                -   Texture editor plugin: <http://github.com/asmecher/texture>
                -   OTS plugin: <https://github.com/asmecher/ojs3-markup> (my fork)
                -   JATS template plugin: <https://github.com/asmecher/jatsTemplate>
                -   OAI Jats plugin: <https://github.com/asmecher/oaiJats>
            -   Removed PHP end tags (woo)
        -   Marco: merging translations, thinking about workflows & software, looking at the documentation hub
        -   Dulip:
            -   python 3 support meTypeset interactive modus , OJS 3 update, ORCID
        -   Alex:
            -   Launch of SciELO 20 Years Repository, which is a pilot for using OJS as preprints: <http://repository.scielo20.org/>
            -   Submissions are restricted to content related to the upcoming SciELO 20 Years Conference.
            -   ISSN needed to register DOI (CrossRef registration plugin). We need a workaround for that considering the repository is not a journal. DataCite plugin might be a solution but requires a different contract (SciELO uses CrossRef).
        -   Chris:
            -   cleaning up PHP, bugging Alec about it
            -   about to start OMP-centric peer review of externally-hosted content; will let team know how it goes
        -   Clinton:
            -   Bumping PHP / RHEL base versions, in absence of a sysadmin
        -   Kenton:
            -   Several new OJS journals, hoping to get back to development work with Objects for Review type functionality. Sonya Betz will be replacing me on the technical committee.
-   **Question of the Month**
    -   What are your suggestions for the updated Terms of Reference?
        -   Marco: see draft, emphasize sustainability, open infrastructure, scholar-led publishing

Old Business
------------

-   Update to [Terms of Reference](https://pkp.sfu.ca/about/organization/technical-committee/)
-   Continued discussion on Organizational Commitment to Free Software
-   Interest in talking about Docker
-   CLA Assistant OK to go ahead with? <https://github.com/cla-assistant/cla-assistant>

Release Progress
----------------

-   OJS 3.1.1-4 is likely to get scheduled in the next weeks for quick release
-   OJS 3.2: Still a huge list of outstanding work, but making progress
    -   Thanks for all your warning work, crism!
    -   Watching for metadata versioning rebase (with apologies for simultaneous churn)
    -   Filing/implementing UI/UX results from email/notification tests

Translation
-----------

-   major OJS translation updates for Czech, Spanish, and Ukrainian
-   trying to make another attempt at getting different translators for the same language to agree on something
-   delayed working on transifex test, trying to put a few tasks together for the Heidelberg sprint

Documentation
-------------

-   All moved to the PKP Docs Hub: <https://docs.pkp.sfu.ca>
-   Gitbooks have been deleted
-   pkp github repos have been retired (still "active" with their histories, but now with a note as to where the content can be found; will be deleted in 6 months)
-   PKP wiki to be retired (with wayback snapshot) on Sept. 1 2019
    -   Tech comm will need to find a solution to the minutes-taking

UI/UX
-----

-   Email and notification testing was very helpful. Sessions are recorded & documented and issues are getting filed and implemented, some for OJS 3.2.
-   Need to consider several bigger picture issues:
    -   Email delivery / DMARC problems
    -   Future workflow/email sending UI

Other topics
------------

-   future of Tech Committee minutes

Next Meeting
------------

September 20th, 8am Pacific (at a pub in Heidelberg?)