# 19 July 2018

In Attendance
-------------

Quick Updates
-------------

-   **Question Every Month**
    -   What have you been working on lately?
        -   JM: Documentation Hub (see below); XML pipeline/workflow stuff; Metadata quality GitHub Project (https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/projects/13) .
        -   DW: XML Workflow, OJS instance test update, OMP production update 1.2 to 3.1.1 , Sprint preparations
        -   CM: Still [this damned code clean-up](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/3578)
        -   AS: XML! Document-centric workflow; separating OTS into OTS and Texture plugins; Grobid? etc.
        -   AM: Playing around with OJS as Preprints repository. <http://preprints.scielo.org>. Aiming to involve PKP team. See proposal by John Willinsky: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qn9hVlaSYhQHG9R83Alp1mUBfPIj2d89MkMd8ivc184/edit>
        -   SL: still merging versioning <https://github.com/lilients/ojs/tree/2072> <https://github.com/lilients/pkp-lib/tree/2072>
        -   MB: New spanish translation release. Docker update and improvement. [<http://ada.uab.cat/xfer/JATS/JATS-workflow-v02-2018.png>, Who is who in JATS]. OTS testing.

-   **Question of the Month**
    -   What makes for an awesome Development Sprint?
        -   JM: Organization helps a lot. A democratic process for developing ideas to work on. If it's part of a conference, have it at the beginning instead of the end, when folks still have energy.
        -   MT: Success. Think of tasks that can be completed/reach a first milestone during the sprint. Boosts motivation a lot. Don't spend too much time on gathering topics at the beginning, get people to work on stuff quickly. Have team members help with tasks, but give them time to do some dev work themselves, especially when the sprint is a rare opportunity to meet in person. For extra awesomeness: snacks and beverages nearby. Maybe have more than one room so that people can have dicussions.
        -   DW : write the specifications for task, code it , test it, document it and share it.
        -   CM: Clear, achievable goals. Success is rewarding and reinforcing.
        -   AM: Core PKP team members overseeing each group, automated tests, sorting issues based on level of difficulty, having not only developers but also targetted users involved.
        -   SL: democratic topic selection, food and enough time
        -   MB: Do "at home" all the work that could be done before the sprint. IMHO, an awesome sprint happens when you try crazy stuff, when you experiment with ideas that are in the drawer but you don't find time to spend on it.

Release Progress
----------------

-   OJS 3.1.1-2 and OMP 3.1.1-3 holding well (XSS reminder)
-   OJS 3.2 development continues
    -   Lots of clean-up (Composer dependencies; Chris's warning clean-up; etc)
    -   ADODB work in progress
    -   Large merges welcome for a limited time!

Translation
-----------

-   About to start Transifex test

Documentation
-------------

-   Documentation hub beta is now live: <http://docs.pkp.sfu.ca/index.html>
-   GitHub repo: <https://github.com/pkp/pkp-docs>
-   Contribution instructions: <https://github.com/pkp/pkp-docs/blob/master/contributing/index.md>
-   PKP|PS will be finishing off V1 of this hub in the next week or two, then updating public links and launching it.
-   Documentation Interest Group will be re-launched once the V1 launch is out.
-   Contributions:
    -   Managed the same as code contributions: pull requests welcome, will be vetted by PKP team member and merged.
    -   Public hub render is currently updated manually, we'll be automating this at some point in the future.

UI/UX
-----

Other topics
------------

-   Organizational Commitment to Free Software (Followup to Microsoft acquiring GitHub)
    -   Will maintain this as a regular discussion.
-   Update to [Terms of Reference](https://pkp.sfu.ca/about/organization/technical-committee/) (see email for proposed draft, and Advisory example)
-   Question: OCS plans?
    -   Essentially, it's something PKP wants to do but doesn't currently have the resources to do well.
-   Import from Zotero/Citavi/etc.?
-   privacy changes for OJS 2 (checkbox for privacy statement)
-   somebody already working on datacite DOI registration plugin?
-   Anybody interested in talking about docker in Heidelberg?

Next Meeting
------------

August 16th, 8am Pacific