# 18 October 2018

In Attendance
-------------

-   Regrets: Marc, Sonya
-   Present: Alec, Alex, Clinton, Dulip, James

Quick Updates
-------------

-   **Question Every Month**
    -   What have you been working on lately?
        -   Clinton - Getting back into OJS coding, upgrading plugins from 2.x to 3.x. Preparing proposal for Summer 2019 Sprint. Q from collaborator: "What about student groups of some sort that might have people who would like to participate? If you have a small paragraph about the technical skills involved in doing this sprint, perhaps we could reach out to some of the existing groups on campus." A from me: probably not viable.
        -   Dulip : OJS3 Lens Plugin
        -   Alex - OJS3 as Preprint server. Still having issues with CrossRef plugin. CrossRef has a specific schema for assigning DOI for preprints so perhaps the OJS plugin needs update? Any help is welcome. Currently working on a list of minimum features to be removed and added to OJS3 in order for it to work as preprint server.
-   **Question of the Month**
    -   What do you identify as a prime example of good technical documentation, and why?
        -   Clinton - One of my gold standards is the CPAN (e.g. <https://metacpan.org/pod/distribution/CGI/lib/CGI.pod>), where each module comes not only with method/function descriptions, but typically code examples as well.
        -   Dulilp - <https://www.netiq.com/documentation/appmanager-9-2/>
        -   Alex - Although very self-indulging and narcissistic this may sound: <http://docs.scielo.org/>

Old Business
------------

Release Progress
----------------

-   3.2 still awaiting versioning merge (currently undergoing porting to OMP)
    -   also rewrite of setup forms to use API in the application and reduce usage of our old JS framework in favour of Vue.js; stats updates; Crossref updates.
-   OJS/OMP 3.1.1-4 released (possibly one more build before 3.2)

Translation
-----------

-   See sprint report (forthcoming)

Documentation
-------------

UI/UX
-----

-   Kevin will likely be handing off the management of this group as part of Brian's retirement; details to come.

Other topics
------------

-   CLA feedback
    -   One comment here: <https://github.com/pkp/ojs/pull/2139>
    -   Institutional vs. individual
        -   It's possible for us to go in and add emails to indicate having signed.
    -   Plugins?
    -   Can't ever revise CLAs without having to have everyone re-sign.
    -   some concern that users have to sign a legal document in a language they might not be familiar with.
    -   Some concern (incorrect) that we're getting ready for some sort of license change.

Next Meeting
------------

November 15, 2018: 11am Pacific (participants' DST participation should be re-sync'd)