# 19 December 2019

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Marc, James, Alex, Alec, Sonya, Dulip, Clinton
-   Regrets: Marco

Question of the Month
---------------------

-   **How Can We Work Better Together?**
    - Concerns from the Barcelona conversation
        - We have had good rapport in meetings, but hope for more diversity of voices
            - Some members (Marc, Clinton, James, Alec) have been on the committee for 5+ years.
            - We're excited to bring on new members (and hope they are excited as well!).
            - We're interested in adding voices to loosen some of our gender and regional clustering.
                - From what regions do we need more representatives?
                    - Central / South America, Africa, anything out of North America, Europe.
                - Do we have concerns about inviting commerical providers?
                - Suggestion list will be shared on Slack
                - Terms of Reference will be shared to Slack and posted to the web.
            - We want to make use of Terms of Reference line: "other relevant staff or community members or others can be invited to participate in Technical Committee meetings for specific topics."
    - Hopes for improving structure
        - We want to spend less time reporting out on activities, and more time sharing innovations, challenges, and recommendations for PKP.
            - Suggestion: provide written "what we've been working on" reports in advance, allow for questions, but don't spend time reporting out.
            - Question: What does the "advising" role of the TC look like within PKP?
                - Good prior examples: CLA, GPL, vue.js, weblate
                - Not-so-good prior examples: shelving OCS
                - Will require a cultural change within PKP as decisions which were previously made internally can/should be run through this committee
                - Items discussed on the TC do get taken to the Directors group.
            - Suggestion: Solicit question of the month topics for next year, describing innovations or challenges we want to address over the year.

Topics for Next Year
--------------------
**Proposal:** Group topics by 6-month segments, prioritize and identify feedback loops for sharing conversations to PKP.
**Proposal:** Start these conversations as groups in Slack?  Send a poll?  Use January meeting to break into subgroups?  Assign a lead per topic?
**Example from SciELO:** biweekly meetings decide two week schedule, daily meetings identify blockers, biweekly meeting reviews prior work and reassigns tasks.  E.g.: each month select tasks for the next month.

- Free/Libre and Open Source terminology in describing our work
- Free software and Proprietary software in our infrastructure
- Introducing and Retiring products (PPS, OCS)
- XML-first publishing and service options
- Strategic relationships
- Community growing
- Long term architecture directions
- Docker container integration of PKP products
- API integrations and refinements
- Region-based requirements specifications for forward to PKP
- Decision-making within the TC -- consensus? Silence is agreement?
- Incentivize security testing via bounties? Audit tools/processes?
- ...

Security Issue
--------------
https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/5302

Other Topics
------------
**Dulip:** 
- Small workshop in Germany in the new year (20-21 Feb 2020): Region-specific requirements.
- Planning to retire OMP python-based front end in favor of Django rewrite.

**James:**
- Substance.io: (Texture Editor) Will continue work on Texture, but not on the main repository.  Elife will be forking the original repo, work will continue there.  Working relationship between Elife, Erudit, PKP remains strong, and well-aligned as a shared responsibility.

**Marc:** 
- Thanks to PKPBCN19, beginning a Spanish OJS network. He thinks local PKP-networks could help to make the community grow and contribute back.

Next Meeting
------------

16 January 2020: 8am Pacific
