# 18 April 2019

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: James (will take notes), Alex, Alec
-   Regrets: Clinton (notes in absentia), dulip, Brian, Sonya

Quick Updates
-------------

-   **Question Every Month**
    - What have you been working on lately?
        - Clinton
            - Currently thinking about configuration management at the application level
                - e.g. How do you manage the common and divergent config.inc.php settings across dozens of journals?
            - Currently frustrated by the deployment of plugins within OJS3
                - We do not use the plugin gallery (we don't allow web-writable code), so we're deploying via git
                - This makes version changes challenging, especially with rapidly evolving breaking changes (stable-3_1_1 vs. stable-3_1_2 vs. master)
                - We've recently begun [tagging our plugin releases in GitHub with application information](https://github.com/ulsdevteam/pkp-formHoneypot/releases), but don't have standardization on branches.
        - Alec
            - ^ What Clinton said about plugins and deployment and versions. This needs work.
        - James
            - Paperbuzz plugin!! Available now in the plugin gallery and at https://github.com/pkp/paperbuzz/ - announcement to go out next week. 
            - XML/Stats/beacon/metadata
            - Also interested in talking about the whole plugin management question; our systems team is looking at some alternatives to the non-git-based plugin gallery
        - Alex
            - Making progress with migration to SciELO's OJS 3. Running tests, checking data consistency. Found some issues with Submission ID tag appearing on Editorial History (Alec is helping out). Webinar in May, full migration slated for June.
            - Providing some missing Portuguese strings. I'm having a hard time finding some strings inside the "locale" folder and its files. Any help is appreciated.
                - grep is your friend ;-)
        - Marc
            - docker4ojs: Team of 3-4 people (more info [here](https://github.com/lucasdiedrich/ojs/issues). Lots of improvements.
                - Exploring tags for: ojs versions / alpine, debian / php 7.2, 7.3
                - Need to make it less heavy as possible.
                - Want to make it as generic as possible.
            - PKPBCN19: Concept  and logistics. Looking for keyspeakers
            - Starting with OJS3 theming. JATS parser compliant?
-   **Question of the Month**
    - Let's talk about membership! (Unless someone has a more interesting topic.)
        - Leaving until next time. 

Old Business
------------

- **Committee membership**
    - Terms of Reference definitions vs. actual composition
    - Objectives of a diversity of membership
    - Specific invitations / recommendations for open seats

Release Progress
----------------
- OJS and OMP 3.1.2-1 due soon
- More PHP7 compatibility updates in 2.x, considering releasing soon
- Versioning code due for merge ASAP (possibly after Easter weekend)
- OJS/OMP 3.2 goalposts moved

Translation
-----------
- How to get a broader overview of individual translations? Marco is keeping an eye on this. OJS 3.1.2 missed some translations due to our needing to get it out. Alec will ask Marco to send a note to translators for a translation round for 3.1.2-x. 
    - comment from Marc: check in and see where translation management tool is. 
        - Alec: topic for next sprint. We acknolwedge that it's an area that the dev team hasn't properly addressed yet. 
    - comment x2 from Marc: is there a progress bar for translation completion? Alec: the translation tool should have one. 
 
Documentation
-------------
- Beta dev docs hub: http://docs-preview.publicknowledgeproject.org/dev/documentation/en/
    - Please send Nate comments! 
    - Build with Jekyll; currently manual but planning to automate

UI/UX
-----
- NTR

Other topics
------------
- plugin deployment: 
    - Alec investigating how to have plugins self-report compatibility. 
    - PKP|PS and Alec are discussing how to allow git clone deployment. 
    - Also looking at sharing plugin documentation within the plugin gallery. 
    - BETA releases: adding a flag into the XML on the PKP website whether something is or isn't formally released? 
    - Also talking about creating a public PKP website gallery. 

Next Meeting
------------

23 May 2019: 8am Pacific
