# 17 January 2019

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Alec, Clinton, Dulip, Marc, Marco, Marisa, Sonya
-   Regrets:

Quick Updates
-------------

-   **Question Every Month**
    - What have you been working on lately?
        - Clinton:
            - PKP Sprint Pittsburgh - no funding for sponsoring travel/lodging (yet)
            - upgrade of Scholary Exchange to 3.x (including plugins akismet, clamAV, formHoneypot, plumAnalytics, recentUsers, sushiLite)
            - migrating Tech Committee wiki
            - thinking on plugin versioning
                - should plugin versions reference the application version (e.g. Drupal's 7.x-2.x or 8.x-1.1)?
                    - Alec suggests that the plugin gallery should be the authority.
            - thinking on contributor roles
                - should CrossRef's taxonomy be the minimum viable product for [#3962](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/3962)?
                    - this includes: author, editor, chair, translator
                    - also consider Series Editor (OMP)
        - Marc:
            - Traefik for dojo: A modern reverse proxy that is able to check OJS dockers to redirect urls to the right place or perform HA tricks.
            - Working with one journal for the first OJ3 migration (including JATS support).
            - Lots of meeting to make possible something that I don't know if I can explain... yet. :-)
        - Dulip:
            - meTypeset - Implemented  support for [field-codes in micrsoft word](https://support.office.com/en-us/article/List-of-field-codes-in-Word-1ad6d91a-55a7-4a8d-b535-cf7888659a51#list)  e.g. [index entry fields](https://support.office.com/en-us/article/field-codes-index-field-adafcf4a-cb30-43f6-85c7-743da1635d9e?ui=en-US&rs=en-US&ad=US) (both TEI and JATS XML were enhanced). Currently writing unit tests and will file a PR.
            - [Extended Lens viewer](https://github.com/withanage/UBHD-Lens) modifications in lens modul were extracted to seperate modules.  Currently building support for  subject indexes, perso indexes and  sub-indexes to be displayed in a seperated Lens navigation panel. This Lens-Viewer is the basis for for [OJS3 Lens-viwer plugin for BITS/JATS](https://github.com/paflov/lensGalleyBits)
            - OJS-de.net project update
                 - Minor commits to ORCID-plugin, testing agaist the 3.1.2 release
        - Alec:
            - OJS branching/release details (see below)
            - Categories added to OJS (e.g. thematic collections)


        - Marco: 
            - going through translation-related PRs, working on German translation of applications and plugins
            - thinking about new OJS-related projects
            - thinking about recent open access developments, especially Plan S (funder requirements) and the critical role of an open infrastructure (also pointing people to Frantsvåg, M.J.E.; Strømme, T.E. [Few Open Access Journals are Plan S Compliant](https://www.preprints.org/manuscript/201901.0165). Preprints 2019, 2019010165, 
            - Q: anyone coming to Open Repositories?
        - Welcome to Marisa and Sonya!

Old Business
------------

Release Progress
----------------
- Status of 2.x release tags in GitHub?
    - Alec is reluctant to package a new 2.x release, especially due to upgrade considerations (2.x -> 3.x matrix)
    - Perhaps if we simply ported important changes into stable and released 2.4.8-4? (Committing to no database structure changes?)
- Breaking changes between 3.1.1 to 3.1.2
    - Smarty2 to Smarty3
        - Templates should be in `templates` subdirectory
        - Templates must be referred to differently (`getTemplateResource`)
        - Templates registering functions should use Smarty3 functions (`registerPlugin` vs. `register_function`)
    - Multilingual author names
        - display name; given name; family name. Everything multilingual.
- Breaking changes between 3.1.2 and 3.2
    - Versioning

Translation
-----------
- nothing significant to report
- still on the list: translation tools, community building/reaching out to potential translators (also for documentation), will have to put some time aside to think about that

Documentation
-------------

UI/UX
-----
- Candidate releases: 3.1.2; 3.2
- Candidate subjects: new setup form tools; versioning; accessibility; xyz

Other topics
------------
- Question of the Month
    - This consumes a fair bit of time within the meetings; should it be continued?
    - Consensus is that this is valuable, especially if we structure the discussion to be:
        - dedicated (not intermixed with Quick Updates) and
        - freeform (encourage a conversational approach rather an a report-out approach)
- Question: Communication plan regarding deprecation of PHP 5?
    - No obligation to support PHP5
    - Latest stable for 2.4.x does support PHP7

Next Meeting
------------

February 17, 2019: 8am Pacific
