# 15 August 2019

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Alex, Dulip, Clinton, Sonya, James, Marc, Alec
-   Regrets:

Quick Updates
-------------

-   **Question Every Month**
    - What have you been working on lately?
        - Clinton
            - Testing migrations to OJS 3.x.  (Our use of [mod_rewrite to mask the journal context will prevent a 3.1.2 upgrade](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/4919) pending 3.1.2-2)
            - PKP Sprint PGH
                - Translation documentation
                - UI/UX review
                - Accessibility review
                - Metadata validation and quality control
                - Front end flexibilty/integrations
                - In-App help for OJS
                - Support Forum improvements
                - REST-API improvements
        - Dulip
            - PKP Sprint
            - Book chapter page (OMP backend+ Python Frontend)
            - Project report ojs-de.net
            -  Tested backend functionalites of [ObjectsForReview](https://github.com/ajnyga/objectsForReview) Plugin in OJS 3.1.2-1
        - James 
            -  Vacation
            -  Stats aggregation for Coalition Publica. 
            -  Editorial Report visualization (can provide preliminary demo). GitHub Issue and PRs: https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/4844. 
            -  Note: the time as come, the walrus said, to retire the PKP wiki. 
        - Marc
            - Vacations on August, but last weeks of June, went to Mexico (Aguascalientes, UAA) to help with:
            - OJS3 migration for UAA.
                - https://revistas.uaa.mx/
            - OJS3 integral course.
            - PKP Disemination tasks.
                - https://soundcloud.com/alejandra-casas-512979609/05agosto2019
            - es_ES translation upgrade (still need to PR)
            - Mexican fellows wanted to contribute with a es_MX translation. Will help them as soon as we have a translation server.
        - Alex
            - Vacations, too!
            - SciELO OJS 3 migration completed in July.
                - Not so smooth as we had hoped. Some major issues we had:
                    - Section Editor role link disappeared from all users (fixed by linking directly on the database)
                    - E-mail daily quota issue (not PKP's problem) aggravated with the fact that all passwords were expired and users had to request new passwords.
                    - Problems with UTF-8 charset (fixed, thanks Alec!)
                    - Missing a lot of Portuguese translations.
                - dealing now with the "aftermatch" now, basically things that existed in OJS 2.x and do not exist (yet, hopefully) in OJS 3.x. 
                - Just heard from James that the Editorial Report visualization is ready-ish to demo. Happy to help out with that.

        - Sonya
            - Final upgrades to OJS 3 nearly complete - 1 journal left out of 60+!!
            - next up is upgrading our PHP environment and then up to OJS 3.1.2
            - working on loads of service documentation and team learning - not so much tech this summer
            - major indexing project and stats reporting project for journals
        - Alec
            - PKP Preservation Network
 
-   **Question of the Month**
    - How are you managing automation of builds and deployment?
        - Clinton
            - We used to deploy git repos (from GitHub tags, but locally cloned and tar'd) via custom shell scripts
                - `CreateNewJournal.sh` (2.x)
                    - Input: Journal DNS, ShortName
                    - Copy blank install into new directory
                        - Use symbolic links to manage different OJS versions
                    - Change file ownership for apache-writable files
                    - Generate a database password
                    - Create the empty database and permissions
                    - sed the config.inc.php with base_url, database name/user/password, OAI repository id
                - `UpgradeJournal.sh` (2.x)
                    - Input installation folder
                    - Sanity check version
                        - Use symlinks to manage different versions
                    - Dump database to temporary backup
                    - Copy new version
                    - Copy old files to new version
                    - Run the upgrade script
                    - diff config.inc.TEMPLATE.php and patch config.inc.php
                    - Swap symlinks to make live
            - Since OJS3 uses composer and npm, and since we're interested in more general configuration management, we're moving away from direct git deployments
            - We're now investigating Ansible as a general configuration management tool, including deployment packaged releases (from GitHub)
                - scripts are still in dev, but will be published here: https://github.com/ulsdevteam/ansible-build
            - I'm curious/concerned about how we manage upgrades within Ansible
        - Dulip
            - Simple Bash shell scripts in Debian/Ubuntu with parameters (OJS/OMP/Lens version, location, test or production). Controlled, monitored manual update mechanisms preffered  institutionally, thus minimum nr. of servers and only script based  half-automated scripts.
        - James/PKP: 
            - Git deployments and upgrades from the most recent -stable branch (some exceptions to that). All run via bash scripts. This includes 
                - server account creation; 
                - OJS preliminary install and configuration (eg. addition of first Site Admin user)
                - additional plugin installations
                - SSL config
            - Currently fairly invested in this. Our main problem is in our upgrade backlog and how to best speed that up. We can automate sandbox creation and test upgrade processing, but production upgrade processes will probably always require some manual intervention. 
            - Secondary problem is system cruft management. 
        - Alex
            - At SciELO, programs are executed inside Docker containers, which ran images are automatically produced in response to the event of the creating a new distribution version (creating a new tag in GitHub, corresponding to the distribution version). Deployment is performed by an operator in periodic update windows.
        - Marc
            - Right now... based on git and mojo. Outdated model.
            - Moving to docker4OJS & dojo.
                - docker4ojs offers every version avaliable from git and ojs packaging script (now stoped because lucasdietrich is disapeared, so this is why we like to organize a group to keep official releases)
                - dojo is a shell script (underconstrution, and stoped till I find a sustainable model for docker4ojs to backup, restore, upgrade, export, ojs containers).
            - dojo demo done some months ago.
            - Looking for more hands to make the project wider and more solid.


Old Business
------------
Out of the [conversation from June](https://github.com/ulsdevteam/technical-committee/blob/master/meeting-minutes/2019-06-27.md#quick-updates), a proposed revision to the committee Objectives in the Terms of Reference:
- Sustainability of PKP software
- Positioning of PKP software as useful for scholar-led, independent publishing
- Emphasizing the open and collaborative character of PKP software
  - Built on free/libre ethical principles
  - Built via inclusive and collaborative community effort
  - Built towards shared knowledge as a public good
- Membership
    - Ronald Steffan from FU Berlin to take over from Svantje (who left there a while back)

Release Progress
----------------
- OJS/OMP 3.2: Big merge around end of August (mostly Nate)
    - Versioning stabilization/improvements
    - Workflow changes
    - OMP porting
- OJS/OMP 3.3 discussions
    - Task-based workflow
    - (remove OJS2 to OJ3 migration toolset to make way for DB layer improvements?)

Translation
-----------
- Alec will chat with Marco on the backlog of translation work which Marco is looking for help covering.
- Translators suggest XLIFF is a transfer format, not a storage format.  Marc will follow up for clarification.

Documentation
-------------
- Updated Crossref guide now available: https://docs.pkp.sfu.ca/crossref-ojs-manual/en/

UI/UX
-----
- Sprint group opened a number of issues

Other topics
------------

- Very briefly: What will happen with OCS?
    - Has been mothballed and removed from the downloads page
    - Future development might enable the use of OJS for conference review, pending 3.3 enhancements
- Aren't our new developments (paperbuzz) too much based on CrossRef?
    - Paperbuzz requires Crossref Event Data (https://www.crossref.org/services/event-data/) as the driving data source. This dataset is available in an open license, I believe. Will retrieve when possible. 
    - CED retrieves metadata from sources other than Crossref: Datacite, Cambia Lens, elsewhere. 

Next Meeting
------------

19 Sept 2019: 8am Pacific
