# 17 October 2019

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Alex, Alec, Clinton, James, Sonya
-   Regrets:

Quick Updates
-------------

-   **Question Every Month**
    - What have you been working on lately?
        - Clinton 
            - Enhancements to the Texture plugin for a journal which is interested in XML-first publishing.
                - specifically: uploading DAR files from Texture Desktop into OJS, and have it work w/Texture. 
                - Dulip is already interested in developing a DAR XML unpacker to do this. 
        - Marc 
            - PKPBCN19 local coordination and website development.
            - Talk about JATS in Madrid.
            - Talk about docker in León.
            - Looking for contacts and discourse to build a ojs-de.net network in Spain.
            - Slowing down Alec with the translation server.
        - Alex
            - Editorial Policy for PPS (more specifically SciELO Preprints Server);
            - Portuguese (Brazil) translations.
        - James
            - Mailing list application/service review (just begun) for PKP outreach. Can extend this to include TC, Advisory, other use cases. 
            - Also talking with Google Scholar, Crossref about ways to handle data integrity/security issues within OJS. See https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/3351 
            - XML Working Group wrangling
        - Alec
            - PLN plugin: Some testing challenges
        - Sonya
            - Finished upgrades 2-3 (yasssss!!) upgraded PHP, upgrading everyone to 3.1.2 next week then testing PKP PN plugin
            - policy toolkit and documentation
            - lots of journal intakes and batch backfiles
            - Owe James review of new OFR plugin
-   **Question of the Month**
    - Editorial users have trouble with technical tasks like file permissions and upgrades when they self-administer an install. Forum users sometimes request consulting-based technical assistance, but we don't have community members who really provide that service ad-hoc.
        - Should we try to develop/encourage such consultants?
            - Marc: I think it's important to cover technical issues (because it's esential to engage people and make the comunity grow and connect, but also as feedback to improve software), but I don't know if we have the "human resources" to do the job. I know some of you are working hard and I tryied to cover some times, but it's time consuming and all of we have a limitated amoung of it. 
        - Should we increase investment in tools like Docker and Softaculous to mitigate the technical requirements?
            - Marc: Yes for docker, not for Softaculous. Why? PKP is commited to "open knowledge" so as an exercice of coherence, I think it also need to be clearly bounded to "free software". Docker is open source (not compleatly "free software" but good enough) and the time/work we put on it, reverts to everybody . Softaculous is not free software. As a open knowledge community I think we need to have a deeper look and think in terms of what are we saying if we use one tool or other.
        - Should we encourage editorial users to only self-host if they have technical expertise?
            - Marc: It depends of the journal needs. Big journals need a very solid platform because they are not allowed to have the site stop during a day or a week. Small ones or starters can be more flexible on it. So, in short: It's something we need to inform and let they decide based on their resources and expectations. Said this, I think the technology is mature enough to look for a more solid "doubleclick-solution" (based on docker, vagrant, snap...) to install and upgrade the platform in a very simple way. This reduce the need of technical expertise (that will allways need, but will be as critical) and will let us focus in software improvements.
            - Alex: Mostly agree with Marc here, plus, perhaps better use of aids such as video tutorials on YouTube? These have proven to be very effective for us.
            - Alec: we should ressurect the Service Provider Network conversation.
            - Sonya: Why do folks choose to self host over going with a service provider?
        - use cases: 
            - editor who is non-technical. Does everything from scratch, with little or no knowledge. Really get into trouble. 
                - provide a clear and realistic description of what's required, and that possibly points them to a hosting service. 
                - This would be a "threshold reset" for our aproach to technical questions on the forum from non-technical users. Not documentation. 
            - journals with technical/institutional support, but a disconnect between end-user and application. 
                - can be better targeted with better tools. 

Old Business
------------

Release Progress
----------------
- OJS/OMP 3.1.2-2 down to 2 issues, just shy of ready for release testing
- OJS/OMP 3.2: Now approaching the November 1st freeze; good progress, deadline may slip slightly
- PPS tour

Translation
-----------
- Weblate
    - Trouble importing components
    - Received an XML-based fr_CA locale overhaul, forward-ported to .po (some pain involved)

Documentation
-------------

UI/UX
-----

Other topics
------------
- Technical Committee membership
    - New candidates
      - Proposal to invite Antti-Jussi Nygård as a community representative is affirmed by the members present
      - General affirmation that if any longstanding members want to roll off the committee, the committee will look for replacements
    - Chair
      - Chair's term is expiring/expired, open to new nominations

Next Meeting
------------

21 November 2019 - regular date will occur during Barcelona conference.  We will plan for an informal meetup there for those able to attend.
