# 21 March 2019

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Marc, Dulip, Clinton, Sonya, Svantje, Alec, Brian
-   Regrets: James, Alex, Marco
-   Notes In Absentia: Alex

Quick Updates
-------------

-   **Question Every Month**
    - What have you been working on lately?
    - Dulip : Writing a drop-shipment tool for monographs (OMP-Python-Plugin), Orcid project - mostly requirment specification, documentation and testing
    - Clinton: PGH Sprint (July 29 - 31), moving journals from RHEL6/PHP5/Apache2.2 to RHEL7/PHP7/Apache2.4, items for Advisory Committee?
    - Sonya: new staff! Trying to test the new OFR plugin (https://github.com/ajnyga/objectsForReview/), upgrades upgrades upgrades 
    - Brian: Still here, but pulled elsewhere. Looking at Video streaming for Islandora, patching systems, and ILS replacement.
    - Svantje: Versioning with Dimitris https://github.com/ojsde/versioning/wiki (Svantje will be leaving FUB this month, now working at TIB)
    - Marc: Docker4ojs, PKPBCN2019, testing OMP, OJS 3.1.2 migration.
    - Alec:
        - Testing, testing, testing, testing
        - Plugin gallery improvements (self-description, documentation)
    - Alex: Still working through upgrading to OJS 3. The last attempt failed, installation didn't go all the way until the very end (from 3.1.1 to 3.1.2). Attempting now to upgrade from 2.x.
-   **Question of the Month**
    - Where is the balance of distributed vs. centralized effort?
        - Docker, Softaculous, Plugins
        - Composer is another example
        - Docker has its own dedicated community
        - The "seal of approval" is an important social guarantee
        - Suggesting a strategy of review and approval: plugin gallery has various levels of certification

Old Business
------------
- About an official OJS Dockerfile
    -   Lucas will do the job and keep the authorship on Dockerfiles.
    -   Marc will overview and contact PKP team if help is needed.
    -   PKP need to include "Docker update" milestone in the release workflow.
    -   If someday PKP dev team wants to take the lead the work will be transfered.

Release Progress
----------------
- OJS/OMP 3.1.2: Good so far (particularly OJS 3.1.2); some plugin issues persisted, and a new build of each (3.1.2-1) is due soon.
- OJS/OMP 3.2: Wrestling with the feature list. Expect deferrals.
- Preprint server (PPS): Working with Antti-Jussi. Planning for a release this year. Early days.

Translation
-----------
- Concerns with documenting translation contributors in Github's wiki or elsewhere.  Possible to use automatic build of GitHub changes into documentation deployment.
- Marc has a translator waiting on tooling to begin work on translations.

Documentation
-------------
- Working on an internal review of automatically-generated documentation (e.g. Doxygen)


UI/UX
-----
- PKP has a couple new resources that we're looking forward to working with on front-end issues

Other topics
------------
- Committee membership
    - Alec will send out some suggestions, others do too!
- Events!
    - Vancouver LPF sprint in May
    - Pittsburgh sprint in July
    - PKP conference in Barcelona in November

Next Meeting
------------

18 April 2019: 8am Pacific
