# 19 September 2019

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Alec, Clinton, Dulip, James, Ronald
-   Regrets: Alex, Marc

Quick Updates
-------------

-   **Question Every Month**
    - Introductions and What have you been working on lately?
        - Welcome to Ronald, representing CeDiS/FUB
        - Marc (in absentia)
            - Testing every JATS plugin.
            - Update the "Who is who in JATS - 2019" report (to be published during the PKPBCN19) 
            - Translation server discussion.
        - Clinton
            - Return of the JATS
                - One journal wants to publish natively in XML, considering:
                - JATS creation outside of OJS
                - Heidelberg's Lens reader or oldGregg theme for display
            - ClamAV plugin problems
                - Updates system packages have slowed scanning unreasonably
                - Something is causing unexpected scanning errors
                - Reworking scanning methodology
        - Dulip
            - Lens development 
            - meTypeset ingegration initial steps
        - Alec
            - Translation merges (covering for Marco temporarily)
        - James
            - XML meetings
            - Crossref WG meetings
            - Coalition Publica International Advisory Ctte meeting 
                - JATS/XML question from Pierre Mounier: better to standardize on a single application/set of applications (for funding purposes)?
                    - Clinton: challenge for users as well
                    - Alec: identify cleave points, and meet that level
                    - Alec: we do make an endorsement when we add something to the plugin gallery. 
                    - Room for Marc Bria's "Who's Who" Guide. 
            - lots of preliminary discussion around outreach
-   **Question of the Month**
    - QUESTION: what do you think PKP's role around outreach to existing users be? How could we be doing this better?
        - Context: Crossref and other aggregators note poor quality metadata coming from some OJS sites.  We know other best practices could be shared as well.
        - Clinton: regional users groups serve this function for other organizations.
        - James: Already considering doing some sort of RUG equivalent with Coalition Publica.
        - Clinton: Pitt hosts the Scholarly Exchange hosting service, with no data ownership - this is an addtional challenge as communication would need to target the journals, not the hosting provider.
        - Alec: Service Providers Network as a tool?  (Needs to be dusted off)

Old Business
------------
- Past meeting notes can be found here: https://github.com/ulsdevteam/technical-committee/

Release Progress
----------------
- OJS/OMP 3.1.2-1: Planned for release October 1st (ish)
- OJS/OMP 3.2:
    - Versioning merge complete, tests fixed
    - Translation/testing/documentation freeze scheduled November 1st (ish)
    - See Translation below
    - Release date for January 2020
- PLN plugin for OJS 3.x: Preliminary build made; undergoing testing with several partners

Translation
-----------
- Making progress with replacement of bespoke toolset/XML files
    - Weblate (POEdit; CrowdIn)
    - PO vs. XLIFF vs. ...
    - The "symbolic keys vs. English text in code" discussion
        - Terminology we've been looking for: Monolingual vs. bilingual (https://docs.weblate.org/en/latest/formats.html)
        - Both XLIFF and PO appear to be used in both monolingual and bilingual forms
        - Weblate supports all 4 permutations
    - Work continues... https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/4779
    - Need a Weblate install for use with the OJS 3.2 translation process.

Documentation
-------------
- Wiki retirement pending Kurt retiring it. We'll be using the static archive provided by Marc Bria. 

UI/UX
-----

Other topics
------------
- Conference update (Barcelona PKP2019)

Next Meeting
------------

October 17: 8am Pacific
