# 23 May 2019

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Marco, Alec, Alex, Clinton, Dulip, Marc, Sarah (for Sonya)
-   Regrets: Sonya

Quick Updates
-------------

-   **Question Every Month**
    - What have you been working on lately?
        - Dulip: German community news letter and technical contacts ,[lensGalleyPlugin](https://github.com/withanage/lensGalleyBits)
        - James: lots of meetings: PKP Sprint, LPF, OA4Anthro. [Stats/report document review](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19IYU37-SQIZNKNfGnPet1sN-xcJB63VcpFp96oVxyMo/edit#).
        - Clinton: Pittsburgh Sprint; Renewed local interest in XML publishing
            - XML first: who all is using Texture + Lens?  See also: oldGregg theme.
            - XML conversion: what is the status for OTS?  Move instead to GROBiD (check with Vitaly and Dulip and James)
        - Marco: transfer of translation-related information from the wiki to the docs server, reviewing translations, thinking about the conference (and a submission ;))
        - Alex: 
            - Translations! Working on Portuguese (BR) translations. Are we doing these right?
            - Final Webinar (manuscript workflow) for SciELO journals scheduled for Monday (05/27). Upgrade for OJS 3 estimated for end of June.
            - Stats/report document review with James, Nate & John Willinsky, following Vancouver Sprint.
            - Preprints Server document review.
        - Marc
            - PKP Conference in November.
            - OJS3 Theming.
            - Translations.
-   **Question of the Month**
    - Let's talk about membership!

Old Business
------------
- **Committee membership**
    - Terms of Reference definitions vs. actual composition
        - Sonya: ensure that the people who are closest to the end users are represented ("members committee" representation?)
            - If members committee represention were strong, feature request prioritization could happen in the members committee and could be reported out to the tech committee.
        - Clinton: Note that we have Tech Committee "alumni" still subscribed to the distribution list.
        - Marco: this should not be a contributor acknowledgement; goals: understanding of scholarly publishing, committment to independent, open-source software for scholar-led publishing in a diverse and sustainable landscape
        - Dulip: technical expertise in a specific subject related to publication workflows or any software subject. 
        
    - Objectives of a diversity of membership
        - Marco: country/region, gender, software, perspectives
        - Dulip: long term contributing to open source based publication process.
        - Alec: seeking broader representation (e.g. Sprint participation, regionally, etc.)
            - Regional aspect may be addressed by an "ambassador" concept -- has been discussed with directors but not decisively
        - Marco: size of the committee? 
            - Encourage limiting to 10(ish).
            - We need a good way to rotate off of the committee (perhaps use "alumni" more deliberately)
        
    - Specific invitations / recommendations for open seats
        - FU Berlin, Heidelberg (other German universities?)
        - Active contributors in Sprints and Conferences
        - Nordic? (Sweden, Finland, Norway, ...)

Release Progress
----------------
- OJS/OMP 3.1.2-1 to come out very shortly (after the weekend) (Marco to quickly scan for stable branch pull requests/translation)
- OJS 2.4.8-x (PHP7 fixes)
    - To be released today, with reservation.
- Master branch needs stabilization work (versioning feature)

Translation
-----------

1. bunch of translation updates piling up, will review over the weekend
2. plan: transfer of some information from the wiki to the docs server: credits, examples of localized journals, glossaries etc. 
    * new document on the hub, "PKP Translation Contributors & Information"
    * Structure:
        * Locales
            * Applications 
            * Glossary
    * example '/de_DE/OJS/'
    * still important, still not widely set up: translation managers for particular languages/locales
    * setup for first languages (de_DE, es_ES), will create accessible version and ask a few people to have a look
    * idea: maybe include something for en_US, too?
3. translator documentation -> merge into/add to contributor documentation
4. still in need of translation tools, will have to make decision, but lack resources; this should be supported by the PKP team
    * Marco, Marc to talk to Alec about next steps on weblate etc., figure out how to address this given everyone's limited resources at the moment 
    * Marco would love to be put in touch with groups who are working on completely new translations or revising stuff that hasn't been updated for years, so "community building"

Documentation
-------------
- Nate has been working on developer documentation, to be launched soon

UI/UX
-----
- (Session at sprint)

Other topics
------------

* Marco for Marc et al.: conference: recommendations for accomodation, who's going to attend etc.
    * Marc: Upppsss... sorry. Mail you tomorrow.
* anyone planning to attend Open-Access-Tage 2019 in Hannover? http://open-access-tage.de/2019 - PKP activities/meetup?
    * if someone (probably from Europe) plans to attend, please let Marco know
* Vancouver sprint 2019 (Alec)
    * https://pkp.sfu.ca/2019/05/16/one-sprint-down-two-more-to-go/
* Pittsburgh sprint 2019 (Clinton)
    * [Register](https://pitt.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_56nGXYfYtpTyFj7)
    * Tell your friends!
* Preprint server (Alec)

Next Meeting
------------
Several members unavailable for June 20. Proposed reschedule:
27 June 2019: 8am Pacific
