# 20 August 2020

In Attendance
-------------
-   Present: Alex, Antti-Jussi, Dulip, Sonya,  Marc, Clinton, James, Alec
-   Regrets:

Quick Updates
-------------
### What have you been working on lately?
- **Alec**
    - Schema documentation and clean-up (associated with https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/6093)
    - PKP|PN for OJS 3.x (re)launch
- **Clinton**
    - Planning upcoming work for fall:
        - Update of Pitt ULS plugins to support 3.2
        - Rewrite of COUNTER/SUSHI, including support of COUNTER R5
- **AJ**
    - Working on our OMP service
    - Cleaning my post-vacation email disaster
- **Alex**
    - OJS working group with SciELO editors keep going.
    - Reporting bug and feature requests for improving OPS.
- **James**
    - managing various projects/relationships (ORCID, Crossref, XML)
- **Dulip**
    - Installation of OJS 3.2.1 servers
    - Specification of [ROR](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/5912) plugin 
- **Sonya**
    - upgraded to OJS 3.2 in early August - doing some post-upgrade documentation, training and cleanup
- **Marc**
    - Vacations.
    - Helping a fellow with a "half-installed-broken" OJS3.2.1 courtesy of softaculous. 

Old Business
------------
* User Survey
    * TODO: draft with categories, expandable by user interest
    * TODO: reaffirm short and long term goals / outputs

Question of the Month
---------------------
### What are our next questions?
Our earlier priorization included pending interest for:
 * Introducing and Retiring products (PPS, OCS)
 * Free software and Proprietary software in our infrastructure
 * Community growing / "engagement" (bump, ties to testing and survey)
 * Region-based requirements specifications for forward to PKP (connects to community growing)
 * Free/Libre and Open Source terminology in describing our work
 * Docker container integration of PKP products
 * Incentivize security testing via bounties? Audit tools/processes?
 * API integrations and refinements

What are current prioritizations?  What are currently emerging questions?

* The scholarly article as data / [as computation](https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2018/04/the-scientific-paper-is-obsolete/556676/)
* Next-Gen considerations in prepublication ([Lippincott slides](https://youtu.be/mheGzi1r4ag))
* Formalizing testing for releases
    * (ties to introducing new products)
    * Opportunity for improvement on big releases
    * Could become a formal proposal / project
    * Good to start with as broad a definition as possible
    * Include here the communication and support of release candidates
    * Foster community involvement


Other topics
------------
* Committee Chair nominations
    * Send any nominations or requests for deadline extensions to Clinton by 21 August.
    * James volunteers to take on a role as notetaker for the committee
* Sprints?
    * Remote participation has been challenging, especially when there is a time difference.
    * AJ applied for funding for a sprint in Finland (estimated June)
    * Dulip participated in a remote eLife conference; this worked well because of:
        * Good room setup
        * Camera showed the whole room
        * One remote participant
        * Local participants deliberately called out to the remote participant
        * Group size was 6 - 7, one breakout with 3 - 4 people, but mostly stayed in the full group.
* PKP PN Relaunch
    * Plugin is available in 3.1.2, 3.2.x
    * Watching ingests come in, everything appears to be working
    * Missing Archive Tar dependency is most common issue on the forum
    * Working on documentation and communication
    * PLN application is to be moved from PHP5 to PHP7 at SFU
    * Looking at workflow for access activation
    * Currently about 7 healthy nodes in the network

Next Meeting
------------

17 September 2020: 8am Pacific
