# 16 January 2020

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Clinton, James, Alec, Alex, Antti-Jussi, Dulip, Marc, Sonya, Ronald
-   Regrets:

Quick Updates
-------------
### What have you been working on lately?

- **Marc:** Xmas vacations. (only a little testing on weblate and keeping an eye on the recently created "ojs-es.net" mailing list). Starting to recover ojs3 theming work. Autoimposed last deadline for OJS 3 migration is Feb/March.
- **Marco:** vacations. project planning.
- **Alex:** holidays, testing on PPS (finished a list of MVP requirements). Will attend to ASAPBio Preprints Workshop at end of the month. Almost done with missing Portuguese_BR translations (now using Weblate)
- **Ronald** (since my last attendance): Update of DNB-Export and Shariff (Shariff version 3.2.1) plugins to OJS 3.1.1/3.1.2 (plugins in testing, will soon be released), update of vgWort plugin to OJS 3.1.1/3.1.2, testing of Lucence/Solr Plugin for OJS 3.1.2 (update performed by Stefan van den Berg)
- **Dulip** (OJS Developer Workshop,  two seperate Python  APIs for library statistik / search repositories)
- **Clinton:** OJS 3.x upgrade requests return of the Editorial Bio page.  Will write a [plugin](https://github.com/ulsdevteam/pkp-editorialBio) for this.
- **Alec:**
    - Testing!
        - Everything rewritten to Cypress instead of Selenium/Webdriver (PPS coming soon, Antti-Jussi)
    - Translations!
        - Thanks for all the feedback, Marc -- I will get to it.
        - Announcement went out recently to the community, translations coming in.

- **Sonya:** Lots of basic service management, new intake process implemented for journals, getting ORCID enabled across the board, experimenting with XML workflow
- **AJ:** PPS work mostly, now starting to work with PPS Crossref plugin

Old Business
------------
- PKP/eLife collaboration on Libero Editor
- Potential Committee member from the new Italian user group
    - Alec will send Slack invites fairly liberally and create a channel.

Question of the Month
---------------------
- What topics should we target for the next 6 months? (roughly ranked)
    - Decision-making within the TC, internally and as advice to PKP (bumped to top as a priority)
    - XML-first publishing and service options
    - Strategic relationships (e.g. Crossref, Texture)
    - Long term architecture directions
    - Release management
    - Introducing and Retiring products (PPS, OCS)
    - Free software and Proprietary software in our infrastructure
    - Community growing
    - Region-based requirements specifications for forward to PKP
    - Free/Libre and Open Source terminology in describing our work
    - Docker container integration of PKP products
    - Incentivize security testing via bounties? Audit tools/processes?
    - API integrations and refinements

> I think a few of these topics could be combined together as meta-topics. ~ Anonymous

> These are all good topics and I can hear the ones at the bottom crying out for attention even as I bury them deeper :) ~ Anonymous

> I feel like some topics need to be discussed first because others are dependant. For instance, a position about public/private or free/open can condition priorities in development or relationships. ~ Marc


Other topics
------------
- PKP Service Providers Network
    - Italy, Mexico, Spain, ...
- Kevin transitioning from Managing Directorship

Next Meeting
------------

20 February 2020: 8am Pacific
