# 17 September 2020

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Alex, Marc, Sonya, Ronald, Clinton
-   Regrets:

Quick Updates
-------------
### What have you been working on lately?
- **Alex** 
    - Coordinating development of an Authors' History plugin for OPS (can be easily adapted for OJS) based on author's email and ORCID ID. First version up and running.
    - Survey discussions with Marc and Sonya.
- **Marc**
    - Back to OJS3 upgrade: Theming is taking more time than expected, but also the architecture changes. Planing a 2 month process to attend doublts journal by journal (50 publicatons). Working in documention for the journals... and thinking to translate "Learing OJS3".
    - Survey discussions with Alex and Sonya. :-)
- **Sonya**
    - Start of term in Alberta
    - Working through post 3.2 upgrade issues, training and communications with editorial teams

- **Ronald**
    - Not much, working time at Cedis currently down to 20%
    - However, from first quarter 2021 OJS/OMP hosting at Cedis will have a second unlimited, full time position and will take over hosting for all three Berlin universities

Old Business
------------
- Chair update
    Sonya has been formally nominated, with pending approval from the Advisory Committee, based on enthusiastic recommendation.
    Thanks to Clinton! **Sonya and Clinton** will meet to carry out transition  
- Survey update
    - **For discussion:**
    - Who is our proposed audience for this survey? 
        - Public survey vs closed one:
            - Marc: Open will mean profiling better the respondants.
            - Clinton: Earlier we discussed looking for power users. Go with both.
            - Sonya: Built with Alex a list of potential power users.
            - Marc: The tool let us split the results based on user-profile (we can make separate analysis if required).
            - Sonya&Alex: Items from forum&github have a solid fundation. Open to everybody will need more work about items to be added.
            - Clinton: Survey as a proof of concept to a second round of surveys, with the ultimate outcome being creating a deeper connection with our user communities, especially our regional networks and service providers.
        - **Decision:** we stick to original intended audience of "power users" and can consider expanding to other user groups with future survey / feedback work

    - Do we need to translate for this audience?
    - How we are going to use the data that we collect?
    - Survey demo (note language and categories are all in development still): 
        - http://ada.uab.cat:8130/index.php/559766?lang=en
    - Should we focus on forum github issues Alex drafted, or also include other items of interest to PKP (i.e: roadmap items?)?
    - We've developed a hybrid ranking (for categories) + rating (for issues) approach. Will this work?
    - Next steps?
        - define audience and channels of dissemination
        - complete survey language (**deadline October 1**) and categories in draft google doc and gather TC and pkp feedback (**Sonya** can book meeting)
        - pretest
        - send to participant and collect data
        - analysis
        - share results
        - tech: limesurvey's hosting.



Question of the Month - TABLED for October
---------------------
### Testing, testing, testing
Current types of testing:
- UI/UX testing (periodical, team-based, led by Israel)
- Integration testing: Travis and Cypress, see https://travis-ci.org/github/pkp/ojs. Currently our main investment in testing.
- Unit testing: PHPUnit; not well maintained
- Release testing: Occurs after Release Candidate is built, during translation/final cleanup phase
    - Community release testing: varying approaches/coverage; recently reestablished
    - Team release testing: Mostly handled by PKP hosting; test environment provided

Needs/opportunities:
- More end user testing
- Better unit test coverage

- In preparation for next month's conversation - we ask PKP dev team (**Sonya can ask PKP to prepare**):
    - Like to know better who&when&how the testing is done or what CI tools we are using. Any workflow? Is it documented or explained somewhere? If not, would be nice to publish it?





Other topics
------------

Next Meeting
------------

15 October 2020: 8am Pacific
