# 19 November 2020

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Marc, Antti-Jussi, Alex, Alec, Clinton, Sonya, Dulip, Ronald, Marisa
-   Regrets:

Quick Updates
-------------
### What have you been working on lately?
- **Alec**
    - OJS/OMP/OPS 3.2.1-2 released. Recommend updating particularly if using OPS.
    - OJS/OMP/OPS 3.3 Release Candidate due shortly
        - Rewrite of submission files (Nate; merged)
        - Rewrite of database layer (Alec; to be merged ASAP)
        - PHP requirement for this bumped to 7.3.
        - TC encouraged to participate in testing!
          - More time between RC and release to allow testing, translation, coding updates. 
          - Hoping to follow this pattern in the future.
          - Dec 3 will have an internal demo for PKP team, on Dec 4 will do a change orientation for community to kick off and will invite community members to participate. Watch for notification; this group is welcome.
          - See pkp.sfu.ca/roadmap for release date plans. OJS/OMP/OPS 3.3 is planned for Q1 2021.
- **Marc**
    - OJS 3.2.1-2 docker image (and testing).
    - cookieConsent research
        - GDPR; session cookie. Cookie is attached to identifying session table.
            - Is it enough to just hash the IP?
            - If not, we need to avoid creating session cookie before consent.
            - Filed: https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/3624 (there are probably others)
    - coordinate "learning OJS" spanish translation.
    - looking for a better server to create a PKP|PN node in EU zone.
    - Adding 2 new journals to our service.
    - Dealing with issues with XML native importation and OAI-JATS.
    - Setting up the infrastructure to use docker with production journals.
    - PKP Survey with Sonya and Alex.
- **Clinton**
    - Import of OJS articles from JATS
    - Early adoption of inviting new contributors to Slack on request from the Forum.
- **Antti-Jussi**
    - Work on our OMP platform
    - Session domain bug with subdomains
    - OPS features, Revert Decline action etc.
- **Dulip**
    - ROR Plugin - 1st version next week
    - OJS DE network
    - Current status of the openImpact plugin: A producion release is planned for February, [sources](https://labs.tib.eu/rosi/)
- **Alex**
    - PKP Survey with Sonya and Marc.
    - "Learning OPS" contributions.
- **Ronald**
    - developing feature for storing/documenting submission checkbox settings, terms and conditions, privacy policy for OJS/lib-pkp 3.1.2 (will be ported to OJS/lib-pkp 3.2)
    - setting up OJS docker environment for plugin development 
- **Sonya** 
    - Survey work with Marc and Alex
    - Dealing with some infrastructure issues at UAlberta


Old Business
------------
October minutes are here: https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/master/meeting-minutes/2020-10-15.md
- **Survey**
    - Completed language revisions
    - Need to move into LimeSurvey
    - Ready for testing; will send a link on the Slack channel. Feedback welcome!
    - Hoping to get the survey out before the holidays.
    - Hosting: need a spot for Lime Survey.
        - Can PKP host it? Possibly not. PKP should probably get first refusal. This can be an experimental install, i.e. go away after.
        - UofA can possibly offer Qualtrics.
        - Marc: Don't mind hosting it.
        - Marisa: Interested in learning more about this.
        - Meet with Marisa, Amanda, Sonya, Marc? Alex will initiate.
- **Terms of Reference** changes completed and will be reviewed by Advisory Committee at Nov 26 meeting. TO DO: please add your start year to the TOR if you haven't already.
- **Testing:** are there any items from our October discussion we would like to pursue?
    - How can the community to testing?
        - Everything is helpful - lots of ways for TC to contribute based on strengths and experience.
        - technical and non-technical tracks - workflow changes are especially helpful. How to prepare users for new features / workflows.
        - More than just the TC -- community is also welcome!
        - How can we encourage more community testing?
            - What kind of support is required, and who provides that support? We pioneered this a little with 3.2.1, but don't have many dedicated resources.
            - How do we collect feedback? Slack (insiders), Forum (external)? Github?
            - Some will have background (need to maintain flexibility; e.g. github would be great), some will not (need guidance; forum OK, e.g. github would be bad).
            - Suggested problems to solve: 
                - How do we let the community know that they're invited to participate?
                - How do they contribute their feedback?
            - Do we want to form a TC working group on community testing?
                - Marc: make sense a community based "Testing force" for External testing like we are doing in transaltions. We will need to offer testers: a) A clean test environment for each tester. b) A guide about what and how to test. c) A guide about how to report in gitHub (or in any extra tool). And most important: d) The coordination role (probably from PKP) to assign tasks, help with testing dubts, and collect and summarize the feedback for PKP-dev. A working group form the TC can make a document explaing how all this could work to let PKP take in consideration.
                - Alec: Maybe this group should be invited to join the Release Process group, providing feedback particularly on testing? ACTION: Alec will have conversation with Release Process group and report back to TC
                - Clinton: Others at Pitt might want to be involved.
                - Come back to it next month? Things might move quicker than that -- 3.3 is a live experiment.
                - There's some internal convo around communication that started this off. There are probably parts where a working group is better than other parts.

Question of the Month
---------------------
 **Versioning:** (discussion tabled from last meeting):
- Our names for the version components have been MAJOR.Minor.release-patch. Clinton's take on our usage: 
    - **MAJOR** has been arbitrary based on how we perceive the severity of the rewrite of the codebase.
    - **Minor** has been used to introduce breaking changes, especially database schema changes.
    - **Release** has been used to introduce new features, but has also introduced an occasional breaking change.
    - **Patch** (Build) has been used for patches and bugfixes.
- Every security patch will have a github tag.
- Semantic versioning:
    - Breaking/API changes, is specific concern. Are there ways to tighten this up?
    - Plugins motivate this (defining compatibility). Alec is working with a contractor on tools around plugins. Very interested but don't know enough.
    - Proposal: Move this to the support forum. Clinton will do.

Other topics
------------

- About Slack: We are losing knowledge.
    - We've agreed internally to move to Mattermost.
    - SFU's hosting environment is tricky for this kind of thing.
    - Alec will dust off the conversation internally.

Next Meeting
------------

17 December, 2020: 8am Pacific
