# 15 October 2020

In Attendance
=============

-   Present: Alec, Alex, Clinton, Dulip, Sonya, Marc, A-J
-   Regrets:

Quick Updates
=============
### What have you been working on lately?
- **Clinton**
    - Rework OJS htmlArticleGalley to [allow directly embedding HTML](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/6279), rather than requiring an iframe.
    - Interest in allowing [replacement of Publisher Library files](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/5780).
- **Dulip**
    - Working on a long term archiving plugin for OJS for ExLibris Rosetta
    - GDPR technical requirements for OJS hosting
    - OJS 3.2 update of Open Impact Plugin from Svantje and preparation for long time support.
    - Collaboration with University Münster for a funding application for open-citations and geometrical data plugins for OJS from German federal Ministry of Education.
- **Alex**
    - Working on the Survey with Sonya and Marc.
- **Marc**
    - Working on the Survey with Sonya and Alex.
    - Talking about documentation to explain the PKP's XML publishing workflow.
    - Issues with smtp mail in OJS3 in my institution.
- **Sonya**
    - Dealing with a db connection situation
    - working on survey with Alex and Marc
- **Alec**
    - Optimization and removing ADODB (!finally!)
        - We currently use a mix of PDO (Laravel) and ADODB for connections. Need to move to one (optimization, maintenance, etc.)
        - Not sure yet whether we'll release this with 3.3.
        - Will include some breaking changes for DAOs (queries).
        - WIP: [pkp-lib](https://github.com/asmecher/pkp-lib/tree/remove_adodb) and [ojs](https://github.com/pkp/ojs/compare/master...asmecher:remove_adodb)
    - Interest in Dataverse and Dryad for data deposit
- **AJ**
    - OMP QuickSubmit and some other features
    - OPS issues

Old Business
============
- Survey update
    - Lots of language review -- more needed?
    - Demo survey experimentation:
    - Next steps:
        - A few TC members to test, please. Follow-up on Slack channel.
        - Test with outsiders

Question of the Month
=====================
- (question here)

New Business
============
## Terms of Reference status and review
- There were changes to the constitution:
    - Selection of the chair
    - How meetings are called
    - Communications (proposed to re-instantiate slack channel)
    - Term limits
- This group is OK with the proposed changes.
- Sonya can take to the advisory committee.
- What about terms?
    - Term details are new to constitution.
    - End dates?
    - Suggest putting a start or end date beside each member's name. (Enthusiasm for start dates -- agreed.)
    - Marc: Renewal process? How does it work?
    - Clinton: Partners need to have someone appointed.
    - Sonya: At start of year [?], chair would identify terms that are going to end in a given year and survey their interest. (Sonya will take a crack at adding some language on this.)
- Marc: Representation? Other countries? Italy? Africa?
    - Sonya: Should explore leading up to next April when terms come up.
- TODO EVERYONE: Put your start dates in the ToR document!

## Testing
- Current types of testing:
  - UI/UX testing (periodical, team-based, led by Israel)
  - Integration testing: Travis and Cypress, see https://travis-ci.org/github/pkp/ojs. Currently our main investment in testing.
  - Unit testing: PHPUnit; not well maintained
  - Release testing: Occurs after Release Candidate is built, during translation/final cleanup phase
    - Community release testing: varying approaches/coverage; recently reestablished
    - Team release testing: Mostly handled by PKP hosting; test environment provided
- Needs/opportunities:
  - More end user testing
      - We don't have the resources to bring on an internal testing team [at the moment, even though it's best practice], but we want to provide resources to coordinate testing teams from the community and partners.
  - Better unit test coverage
  - PKP dev team testing demo/orientation
     - The documentation at https://docs.pkp.sfu.ca/dev/testing/en/ leaves Clinton wondering:
        - What version switched from Selenuim to Cypress testing? (3.2 or 3.1.2)
        - Does Cypress interact with PHP Unit tests, or just functional/integration tests? Only for integration tests.
        - How would a developer build PHP Unit tests into a plugin repo?  Change the command run at the end of travis.yml in the plugin.

**Gaps and future steps**
- Unit testing (currently PHPUnit) -- needs management
- Community release testing / guidance. Partners.
    - Knitting them into iterative testing in the dev cycle?
    - Guides?

- Marc thinks that external "testing force" is possible with community/partner members, but like in transaltions, it will need work from PKP. 
    - A test environment for each tester.
    - A guide about what and how to test.
    - A guide about how to report in gitHub (or in any extra tool).
    - And most important: The coordination role (probably from PKP) to assign tasks, help with testing dubts, and collect and summarize the feedback for PKP-dev.

## Versioning
  - Our names for the version components have been MAJOR.Minor.release-patch.  Clinton's take on our usage: 
      - **MAJOR** has been arbitrary based on how we perceive the severity of the rewrite of the codebase.  
      - **Minor** has been used to introduce breaking changes, especially database schema changes.  
      - **Release** has been used to introduce new features, but has also introduced an occasional breaking change.
      - **Patch** has been used for patches and bugfixes.
  - Marc asked in slack about if we can ensure every security patch will have a github tag, and the answer is yes.
  - This topic to be discussed next month.


Other Topics
============

Next Meeting
============

November 19, 2020, 8am Pacific
