# 17 December 2020

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Sonya (Chair), Alec, Dulip, Clinton, Antti-Jussi, Marc
-   Regrets: Alex

Quick Updates
-------------
### What have you been working on lately?
 - **Alec** - Portico plugin updates; PKP Beacon; next: Sword plugins
     - Alec will plan a quick beacon demo next month.
 - **Dulip** 
    - [[Plugin] ROR for community testing](https://github.com/withanage/ror) OJS 3.2+ support, will be shipped with OJS 3.3 (thanks for members in this group  who  contributed  in numerous ways)
    - [Plugin]  ExLibris Rosetta  for long time archving (final stage)
    - [[Presentation] Persistent Identifiers for Jounals and Publishing (OJS/DOI/Orcid/ROR/funders) - Orcid Workshop, Germany ](https://zenodo.org/record/4303943) 
    - [Evaluation of tools] Dissemination/possible correcting of latex input files with mathml as JATS in OJS-XML-workflow. (Interested in Knowledge sharing)
    - [GDPR]  technical implications for OJS, specially privacy issues in mult-journal installations (TIB); looking for a solution on cookies. (Thanks to European community for GDPR work etc!)
 - **Clinton**
     - Import of backissues (folders of NLM/JATS, PDF galleys and supplementary files, and cover images) using [Article Importer Plugin](https://github.com/jonasraoni/article-importer-plugin/)
         - Enhanced to:
             - capture cover images
             - capture original XML
             - capture citations
             - fix capture of authors and DOIs
         - Proposed refactor:
             - Become a child plugin of Native XML import
             - Define filestructure of batch import of metadata and submission files
             - Transform filestructure into Native XML for load
     - Piloting first journal in OJS 3.2, so certification of ULS plugins against 3.2 is incomming.
     - Creating a plugin to present an HTML Galley as the Article landing page
         - https://github.com/ulsdevteam/inlineHtmlGalley
 - **Antti-Jussi**
     - Revert declined editorial decision (3.3)
     - Small additions / fixes to OPS 3.3
     - Started to work with "invite user to role" action for OJS/OPS/OMP (https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/3022)
     - Preparing Christmas dishes!
     - Also, been in contact with Swedes and Norwegians who are planning national services based on OJS.
 - **Sonya** 
     - Met with PKP Advisory Committee and updated them on our work this fall
     - Met with Mariya and Israel re accessibility committee community engagement / surveying activities, met with Marisa re survey comms
 - **Marc**
     - Setting all the docker infrastructure in a new server to test all before the migration (fighting with a reverse proxy called traefik that don't like to play gentle with OJS).
     - Helping with the survey stuff.

Old Business
------------
November minutes are here: https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/master/meeting-minutes/2020-11-19.md
### Terms of Reference
- approved by advisory committee at Nov meeting
- Sonya will send Alec the most recent doc and Alec will put it on the website.

### Survey Updates:
- Meetings with Accessibility team, and with Marisa
    - PKP is interested in survey tools.
    - DIG (Documentation Interest Group)
    - Communications strategy for survey deployment. Hope to distribute in early January.
    - Hoping to use this to see whether LimeSurvey can be hosted/used in PKP (and hosting group may be ready for it by then)
- Need a data policy to align with the survey, since we're collecting email addresses. Concerns with Google Suite.
    - Option: SFU Vault? Would lose collaboration, outside contributors.
    - Google's ubiquity; existing workflows; efficiency
    - Suggestion: explain and adhere to restrictions around who accesses data; platform of access is less important/tougher to pin down.
    - Broader discussion: Google Docs/closed source. Hosting restrictions, state/maturity of alternatives. Atlassian Cloud? NextCloud?
    - FSF tool recommendations: https://opensource.com/article/20/5/free-software-communication
    - Still working on a domain name for the LimeSurvey installation; Marc and James in touch.
- final testing

Question of the Month
---------------------
### 

Other topics
------------
### Testing 3.3
- Invitation from PKP to begin testing 3.3 release candidate
    - Change Orientation: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ahtJNXRW4YBiJ94KhcWmkxgK6QTZXV6kN8ymaRCWqqA/edit
    - Part of PKP's plan to formalize release process: longer time between RC and release; clearer communication of new features; etc.
    - What about test plans?
        - Need variety in testing.
        - Technical/self-steering time contributions are hard to find. But that kind of testing is needed (hosting environments, weird data, ...)
        - Opportunities for thematic testing: accessibility; language; etc
        - If editors are excited about an upcoming feature, they may provide a good testing group (and will be better prepared for new version upgrade to be deployed)
    - The master branch in github is currently feature-frozen, so testing from that directly will be slightly more stable than the RC .tar.gz file -- recommended to use master branch for testing when possible
    - Marc and Alec will share testing lists on Slack channel; others welcome
    - Feedback welcome via any mechanism, but Github preferred for this group.
    - Planning for release in February.
- Special shout-out from the TC to the authors of the Change Orientation document (Nate)! It's great! 

Next Meeting
------------
- January 21, 2021, 8 am PST
    - Demo on Beacon
    - What do we want to accomplish next year? Bring 1-2 things for us to tackle.
