# 18 June 2020

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Marc, Sonya, Clinton, Dulip, Ronald, Alex
-   Regrets: Alec

Quick Updates
-------------
### What have you been working on lately?

- **Marc**
    - Not much. Dealing with allergy and trying to breath.
    - Manage to make our ojs docker run over [play with docker](https://labs.play-with-docker.com/?stack=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pkp/docker-ojs/master/versions/3_2_0-3/alpine/apache/php73/docker-compose.yml). [Video demo](https://vimeo.com/430051924) about how it works.
    - Translation coordination.
- **Alex**
    - (Almost) Done with gathering feedback from PKP team regarding list of feature requests (big thanks to Nate and everyone else who commented). Original list had 82 items, new list was shortened to 45 items (so far).
    - Next steps: go through the final list again, reword everything for more survey-friendly terms. Aiming to share something with Technical Committee by or before the next meeting.
    - OPS 3.2.1 candidate release tested. 40 minutes to upgrade. Conflict with ORCID Plugin (fixed thanks to Alec).
- **Clinton**
    - Kicking off another round of OJS 3.x upgrades, thinking a bit on release packaging and upgrades.
- **Dulip**
    - [Texture Plugin](https://github.com/pkp/texture/releases)  : Metadata editing disabled, Support for "Unsuported" tags.
    - [Lens Galley BITS Plugin](https://github.com/withanage/lensGalleyBits/releases) : Image support, OJS 3.2.0
    - Affiliation change from July, 2020 to University Hannover Library
- **Sonya**
    - Preparing for upgrade of sites to OJS 3.2.1
    - contributing to some ORCID feedback through Canadian ORCID consortium (John Aspler)
- **Ronald**
    - handling various customer requests related to Google Fonts, OJS Statisitcs, DMARC compliance, data privcy issues, security issues (TinyMCE upload feature)
    - upgardes to OJS 3.1.2
    - upgrades OMP
    - plugin upgrades and support requets (vgWort,DNB)
- **James** 
    - ORCID development and documentation wrangling
    - ongoing XML editor discussions
    

Old Business
------------
* User Survey / Features Feedback
    * List reduced from 80+ to about 45; good progress, but still a lot.
    * Alex will refine the wording of the items, Sonya will help.
    * Question: how will this be implemented: survey, platform, targets?
        * PKP has used Survey Monkey and LimeSurvey in the past.  Google Forms?  Marc has experience with LimeSurvey and could install a Docker instance.  Alex has a slight preference to Survey Monkey.
        * Main idea is to know the community priorities.
        * One challenge will be to create short but informative survey.
        * We might add open responses to capture more info, but focus on prioritization.
        * can ask for contact info and opportunity to follow up - could have focus groups or one-on-one conversations, or send follow-up survey or questions
        * Consider including some preamble to ensure clarity of purpose and set expectations for respondents - ensure there's understanding that this information can inform PKP's knowledge of what community priorities are, but doesn't commit the devs to build everything all at once.

Question of the Month
---------------------
### Long term architecture directions
One approach to this discussion could be: where can we un-invent our own wheel?  We have made a lot of progress recently in leveraging existing tools/frameworks to implement what someone else has already solved.  We also still have quite a few homegrown solutions (user and permissions and authentication management is Clinton's pet peeve).  Where is our tooling enabling us to focus on our unique dev and ui/ux challenges?  Where is our tooling distracting us with re-inventing wheels?

The recent security issue with jbimages illustrates some of the pitfalls of abandoned frameworks or tools.



> **Marc:**
> 
> Thanks Clinton. The question is as important as difficult to answer, so sorry in advance for the extension.
> 
> I think we will have lights and shadows in both approaches, but the whole industry is doing code-recycling to speed up the innovation process and PKP's applications are growing in number and functionalities (and we only have a few hands to do the development) so looks like the smart move is **keep going to integration approach**.
> 
> Benefits are clear:
>   1) PKP don't need to implement every single feature and we can offer more features "for the same price".
>   2) If we pick robust projects we will get maintenance and security alerts.
>   3) It could speed up the development process.
>   4) ...
> 
> But there are also some important downsides, because more you integrate, more complex will be the application and complexity is not always cool.
> 
>   1) We lose control: eventually some of those external developments could go in a direction that is far from our goals or needs (ie: texture).
>   2) Complexity is difficult to maintain: 
>       1) Security: We can be hit by security issues from external tools (ie: "jbimages").
>       2) Inconsistency: Without clear lines there is a risk of extending too much our dependencies, creating an eclectic stack (difficult to install, performance issues...).
>   3) Know-how: We won't never have the deep understanding of our application that we have now.
> 
> I understand Alec's role is about keeping all this sorted (I can't imagine nobody better for the job) but complexity will grow in future so we will also need to look for new resources to make our dev team work easier or... their work will be focus in "keep things running" instead of "creating new magic".
> 
> So, yes... I think we need to "focus on our unique dev and ui/ux challenges" and to do that I think would be nice to explore/consolidate the following:
> 
> - Move (progressively) to an existing PHP framework (laravel, symphony...).
>     - It will help us to keep a consistent stack (2.2) and facilitate integrations.
> - Include a composition analysis software (like [this](https://owasp.org/www-project-dependency-check/)) in our development process.
>     - To deal with Security issues (2.1). 
> - Create a testing team force with clear tasks and agenda.
>     - To release our devs from part of this charge.
> 
> We never had this talk here in the TC, so sorry in advance if we are doing all this and Iâ€™m not aware.
> 
> In the other hand I was so happy to know have been using using CI/CD approaches (github+jenkins?) and a testing framework (cypress) for a while, but I would like to know how they work and if our dev team is happy with it or we need to explore alternatives.
> 
> Sorry a lot for the extension. As said, it was a difficult question. ;-)

**Alec**
> ^ What Marc lays out is roughly our plan (to progressively decrease our code holdings and integrate 3rd-party tools/frameworks). Some recent examples:
> * OJS/OMP/OPS 3.3 (merged): Replacing ADODB schema management and homebrew upgrade methodology with Laravel schema toolset: https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/2493
> * OJS/OMP/OPS 3.3 (merged): Replace homebrew HTTP client with Guzzle https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/5963
> * OJS/OMP/OPS 3.3 (nearly done): Replace homebrew caching libary with Stash https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/3304
>
> We are already using several Laravel tools and it's natural to look there for more opportunities.
>
> The recent JBImages vulnarability was already mitigated in OJS/OMP 3.2, before it was reported to us, thanks to Nate's work along the same lines -- reducing obsolete code holdings, and using modern dependencies instead. Take-away: doing this work proactively should actually save us time/panic compared to e.g. reacting to vulnerabilities.

Suggestion: frame this not as "long-term" but as "strategic" architecture decisions.  Best practices change and industry moves too quickly to plan as "long-term".

Question: How do we evaluate framework decisions, with stakeholders of PKP developers, Technical Committee, and others?  This feels like the work we (TC) are tasked with.  Could the TC Question of the Month be to evaluate options?  How does PKP determine which internal discussions/decisions are "big" enough to bring to the Techincal Committee.  Suggestion: Making the Milestones document public will help with this; the Survey may also help to identify "big", "expensive" priorities in need of broader discussions.

Development updates
-------------------
* OJS/OMP/OPS 3.2.1
    * `stable-3_2_1` branches created for main repos (`pkp-lib`, `ui-library`, `ojs`, `ops`, `omp`) and many plugins
    * Release candidate packages out June 4 (https://forum.pkp.sfu.ca/t/ojs-omp-and-ops-3-2-1-release-candidates-testing-only/60943/2)
    * Releases planned for Friday, June 19th
* `master` branch
    * Diverged for 3.3 development! Watch for breaking changes, create `stable-3_2_1` branches for your plugins as needed. (In particular: Composer dependencies, back-end UI improvements)
    * Inclusive language
        * **Proposal:** rename git `master` to `unstable` (see [mail.gnome.org discussion](https://mail.gnome.org/archives/desktop-devel-list/2019-May/msg00066.html) and [CNet article](https://www.cnet.com/news/microsofts-github-is-removing-coding-terms-like-master-and-slave/)). It's apparently possible to keep this transparent/painless for existing users. (Other options: `main`, `trunk`)
        * This aligns with our other work on inclusive language: [blind review](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/4895), [gender fields](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/3387), [sexist language](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/5103)

Other topics
------------

- TEI consortium is looking for board members. Deadline on 30J. Somebody from the board will support a PKP candidate.
    - Make sense for PKP to be in the TEI consortium?
- Security Mailing List, other mailing lists, and pulling in folks from Beacon data or Index (JM can discuss)

Next Meeting
------------

16 July 2020: 8am Pacific
