# 20 February 2020

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Alex, Clinton, Antti-Jussi, Marc, Dulip, Sonya
-   Regrets: Alec, James

Quick Updates
-------------
### What have you been working on lately?
- **Antti-Jussi** 
    - Working on Open Preprint Systems for the beta release. This will happen together with the 3.2 release. 
    - https://github.com/ajnyga/ojs/tree/preprints. 
    - At work building our new OMP portal.
- **Alex** 
    - PT_BR translations for OJS; PT_BR and ES translations for OPS. 
    - Coordinating the development of screening plugins and theme for SciELO Preprints Server.
- **Clinton** 
    - Interested in thinking more on the relationship of email templates to our other (Smarty) templates; also interested in security reporting and in plugin-based data updates.
- **Sonya** 
    - getting ORCID plugin setup for journals. New intake processes at UofA to allow for more consistent approach to new journal setup. Biggest concern for program right now is preservation. 
- **Marc**
    - OJS-es.network dinamization.
    - OJS3 institutional theme.
    - Testing gitLocalize.
    - ES_es & CA_es Translation coordiantion.
    - Recovering an old server to setup a new PKP LOCKSS node
    - PKPBCN videos.
    - Disaster recovery (with my own laptop).
- **Dulip**
    - OJS Workshop in Heidelberg 
  

Old Business
------------

Question of the Month
---------------------
### Decision making within the Committee
* How do we ensure topics are adequately discussed and brought to an actionable state?
* How do we communicate recommendations to PKP?  (And receive requests for input?)
* How do we solicit input from the broader community?  (And communicate back out?)
* Are there unresolved prerequisite questions which must be addressed?

Really liked the blog post made by PKP for the 3.2 release noteboook.  Good model for communicating with user communities, and for passing along.

Working Group or Advisory Group?  An advisory group already exists, there is a need for specification and actionalble proposals.

But not all member can contribute to tasks in the same ways.

Hope for discussing best practices and major issues.

We advise when evaluating the best ways to do things, but we also get our hands dirty.

We have the capability of taking requests for opinions from PKP and discussing and preparing formal reports.

Ask the Advisory Committee if there are any big questions or concerns that we should be working on.

Can we collect feedback from users via a survey? Perhaps pushed through the software? 

Can we gather user priorities for feature development?

Perhaps our former list of topic suggestions would be useful a template of user feedback.

Multiple members are connected to various user communities.

The Support Forum is another large datasource of user feedback (priorities, stress, impact).  Voting on the forum could help to clarify this, or consolidating these to another system (like a survey).

The challenge with a survey is that it is a heavy request for users.

The Forum is a limited venue in that it is primarly in English.  The survey should be translated.

The Community Priority tag in GitHub is useful, but strictly curated by the developers.

Colleagues who manage large sets of journals could be a resource in already distilling priorities and needs. Similar to Service Providers Network, but different (community focused)?

Responsiblity and Accountability within the Committee: would we be open to assigning tasks to oweners within the committee to help keep focus.

How do we balanace limited development resources with the goal of "Track the latest discussions and current state of scientific publishing in order to align PKP products with emerging ideas."

*Actions:* Draft survey. Coallate two lists of: individuals who would be representive users (Sonya), what are the things we want to know from the community (Alex)? Target this for the next meeting.

Other topics
------------

Would like to talk about the future of OCS at the next meeting.

Next Meeting
------------

March 26th, 2020: 8am Pacific (moved due to multiple member scheduling conflicts)
