# 16 July 2020

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Alec, Alex, Antti-Jusi, Clinton, James, Marc, Ronald, Sonya
-   Regrets:

Quick Updates
-------------
### What have you been working on lately?
- **James** - ongoing XML discussions, some Crossref dev oversight, some preliminary discussions around interoperability with OA Switchboard and KU/Oable
- **Clinton** - not much PKP-related.  Want to implement ExLibris Alma as an ILS?  Ask me about implementing Alma.  Or, please don't.
- **Alex** - Finished gathering feedback from PKP-Devs for the User Survey. Started Working Group with SciELO Editors to list OJS's strengths and weaknesses.
- **AJ** - Mostly our OMP platform related stuff. On vacation right now...
- **Sonya** - working through upgrade to 3.2. Some team members planning for accessibility / usability testing with PKP team
- **AS**
    - PKP|PN nearly ready for release for OJS 3.x (finally)!
    - Plugin build tooling (with 3rd-party dev)
- **Ronald** - Mostly hosting business, plugin support, getting into OJS 3.2
- **Marc** - nothing relevant for PKP. :-(

Old Business
------------
* User Survey
    - Next steps: revise final list, lookout for feature requests that could be removed. Discuss targets and ways of distributing the survey.
    - Review desired targets for distribution next month

Question of the Month
---------------------
### Release management
Questions, questions, questions:
* How frequently do we release?
    * We continue to move to more rapid releases; this helps those who upgrade through packages rather than Github.
* How do we balance API stability / backwards compatibilty against features?
    * We don't anticipate frequent dramatic rewrites (such as 3.2's versioning), but we know such breaking changes will come again
* Recommendations for release testing strategies?
    * Releases generally get tested by early adopters
    * We're starting to produce formal release candidates for testing
    * This was done formally with our recent release of 3.2.1
    * If we can identify a way to engage early adopters, we could create an interest group for this testing
        * Slack channel?
        * Private forum channel?
        * Other?
    * An interest group would require volunteer coordination, or PKP staff coordination
        * Such a PKP position doesn't currently exist, but is an add-on for several staff members
* How do we manage plugin release with product releases?
    * New tooling in progress: https://github.com/kabaros/pkp-plugin-cli
        * Builds, packages, tags, uploads releases to Github. We used it heavily for the 3.2.1 release and it's very helpful!

Other topics
------------

Next Meeting
------------

20 August 2020: 8am Pacific
