# 20 May 2021

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Clinton, Alec, Sonya, Ronald, Clinton, Michelle (UofA), Alex, Erik, James, Dulip, Michael, Tim, Jonas, Marc, Alec (guests from dev channel)
-   Regrets:

Quick Updates
-------------
### What have you been working on lately?
- **Alec** - Code modernization: namespaces and constants encapsulated in classes. (Tons of changes for 3.4!)
- **Sonya** - Library Publishing Forum week - most presentations will be posted on the Library Publishing Coalition website. Prepping report for survey data
- **Clinton** - Work on a set of plugins (theming, blocks, wrapped in a Generic Plugin) to present HTML Galleys inline on the Article Landing page; thinking on packaging and deployment, specifically making [buildpkg.sh](https://github.com/pkp/ojs/blob/main/tools/buildpkg.sh) useful for forks, and [CLI interaction with the Plugin Gallery](https://gist.github.com/ctgraham/d21f4153dd95928c740b533a70b3ad94).
- **Alex** - Coordinating inclusion of Authors' History plugin to PKP's Plugin Gallery. Working with folks from PREreview (external peer review platform) in a plugin for OPS.
- **Ronald** - Just back to full time with a new project extending our services around OJS (e.g. plugin develpoment, accessiblity, XML-wokflow) within the Berlin University Alliance (Free University, Technical University, Humboldt University, Charité).
- **AJ** Upgrading our installation to 3.2.1. Continuing to work with OMP / OPS.

Old Business
------------
### Previous Minutes
-    April 2021 https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2021-04-15.md

### Ongoing Work

- Survey review and preliminary results (Sonya, Marc, Alex, Michelle)
    - First attempt at a survey; first use of tools; lots of learning
    - Background
        - TC-initiated interest in analyzing feature requests.
        - Alex and colleague collected these from the forum (feature requests from the last 2 years) and github issues (community priority). For the survey, items from the roadmap were also included where they were not previously covered.
        - These were collected into major categories and already-implemented features were removed.
        - (This was initiated a year ago, so some may already have been implemented.)
        - Major categories were presented for ranking, and highest-ranked categories were made available for more detailed feedback.
        - Survey open from Feb 9 for about a month; responses solicited as widely as possible.
        - Managers and journal editors were intended audience. (High number of responses made this a good decision -- more analysis would have been tough!)
        - 721 total responses: 524 completed; 188 incomplete.
    - Results
        - (see preliminary report)
        - Do we know about distribution of respondents? No.
            - The survey was conducted in English, so that would be a restriction.
            - Survey distribution may have favoured North America and Latin America
        - Hard to know impact of existing improvements when respondents may or may not have access to them
        - Still need to break down specific features in some categories
        - Free-text answers demand much more work of analysis, but if we find time for it, could be a source of valuable data too:
            - People want auto-save (e.g. reviews)
            - People want to be able to migrate journals between instances
            - etc
        - Some surprising uniformity amongst respondents
        - Results probably informed by daily-use issues/experiences of respondents
        - Categorization is a crucial decision -- this more than anything else defines the kind of responses we'll get.
    - For future surveys
        - Capture more data to be able to segmentate the respondents (geographical information, more profiles, multijournal, multilang, sector?)
        - Adding more dimensions for analysis can be a lot of work! Choose carefully. 
        - Some data can be captured but not analyzed on first term... or just analized for certain combinations
        - Use more required answers so people don't skip responses
        - Everyone thinks everything is crucial. Sometimes 5-point scales aren't very useful. (Bar charts in analysis combine these for clarity.)
        - Better segmentation of OJS versions to clarify respondent's environment? (e.g. ability to save partially-completed reviews)
            - OJS 2.x vs 3.x difference in statistics importance confirms our 3.x work's value, but surprising that stats didn't come higher in 3.x interest. But OJS 2.x responses may appear outsized in visuals -- there were not many.
        - What about types of publishers? Self-select or target communities specifically: by field (medical); resourcing; institutional support
        - Capture features from forum, gitHub and others is a huge task. Sorting the information in categories and summarizing the features was also hard. 
        - If we can centralize the feature requests (ie: in forum?), classify as and summarize/review as they appear it will make very easy to generate a survey in the future (the job will be a simple forum exportation).
        - Prioritizing in-depth answers on top-ranked categories was a successful strategy.
        - Time lag between start and launch would be good to resolve; some feature requests are already outdated
    - Questions:
        - How do we present the results to the community?
            - Would like to share a report within the next month. PKP AGM and advisory committee?
                - AGM scheduled for June 18th (sorry for late announcement); at least a mention would be wonderful (if that's too soon)
        - What actions/next steps do we recommend?
            - Nate, Alec, Sonya (possibly others) to meet re: specific results
            - TC to consider how to inform development process
            - Report to be finalized; PKP's blessing to proceed as autonomously as the survey process has been until now (and big thanks!)
- Check in on membership conversations
    - Potential new TC member
- Update on Admin Documentation working group (Marc, Dulip, Clinton)
    - Mostly working in [define the project](https://hackmd.io/I8Qsx0pjReOiTONY6ZUSIA).
    - We need to write an upgrade howto document. The approach is "start with something small and make it grow".
    - The TC sub-team will start with the document’s scaffolding, detailing the sections and the steps that need to be written.
    - New meeting will be next week to review the work with DIG fellows and (if everybody is happy) start with real writing.

Question of the Month
---------------------
-    Google FLOC Q from Nate W: "I'd like some feedback from our community, especially the Tech Committee, on the new surveillance technology being added to Chrome, and whether we should take steps within our applications to block this. Details here: https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/6961"
    - Deferred for next month.

Other topics
------------

Next Meeting
------------

June 17, 2021: 8am Pacific
