# 15 April 2021

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Alec, Alex, Clinton, Dulip, Marc, Sonya
-   Regrets:



Quick Updates
-------------
### What have you been working on lately?

-  **Alec**
   - Working with a developer on plugin status grid: https://pkp.github.io/plugin-compatibility/index.html
   - Security releases: 3.3.0-5
       - Security mailing list launched: https://lists.publicknowledgeproject.org/
   - Some big changes for 3.4:
       - Introducing namespaces (https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/pull/6853) and class-based constants https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/6092
       - Nate introducing comprehensive code reformatting (https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/5678)
- **Marc**
    - OJS3 upgrade: First journal finally released ([here](https://educar.uab.cat)).
    - Helping with the "PKP priorities survey".
    - Slack conversations about "last suported version" and upgrade documentation/tooling.
    - Forum support.
- **Alex**
   - Porting custom-developed plugins for OPS to the public PKP Plugin Gallery.
   - Porting Paperbuzz plugin for OPS.
   - Testing & bug reporting OPS/OJS 3.3.
   - Helping with the “PKP priorities survey”.
- **Sonya**
    - Survey work
        - OJS2 users more concerned than OJS3 users about stats (good news?)
        - Submission management; peer review
        - More analysis underway: will explore top-3 rated categories
        - People want everything :) high priorities and neutrals.
        - Free-text responses: lots of content, but hard to work through
        - Invite members of the PKP team to come along?
            - Potentially useful for: Dev team; hosting; UI/UX; documentation; etc
            - Sonya will post on the pkp-dev channel and Alec will forward to staff etc.
        - Dedicate next meeting to this.
        - LimeSurvey seemed to work pretty well. Available for future uses!

    - PKP Advisory Committee meeting last week
    - Meeting with chairs of DIG and AIG
    - (at UAL) journal intake for 4 new publications in spring intake
- **Dulip**
    - Custom Frontend Theme for TIB Open Publishing 
    - Hosting work 
- **Clinton**
   - Updates from OJS 2.4.x to 3.1.2
   - Bridging HTML Galleys to the htmlContent property of articles/publications.


Old Business
------------
- March minutes here: https://hackmd.io/spvzNYltRFGo0s8wByI7LA
- Survey updates: 
    - Preliminary results
    - next month meeting dedicated to reviewing results? Who else would like to join us (invite to PKP staff)?



Question of the Month Continued from March
---------------------
Committees discussion with Kevin Stranack:

At our last meeting we started a really good discussion with Kevin Stranack about the structure and purpose of the Technical Committee vs the Members Committee, and whether there may be ways to coordinate or connect with or restructure the Technical Committee and the Members Committee to improve the connections between groups and better coordinate our efforts. As per our discussion at that meeting, Kevin has created a draft document to consider - please review and feel free to comment, add questions or new ideas, and provide feedback on it preparation for a discussion on this topic at our Committee meeting next week. We are also consulting with the chairs of the Members Committee interest groups (Accessibility Interest Group and Documentation Interest Group) as well as the PKP Advisory Committee.

The document is here: (removed from public minutes)

- Expanded mandate could be a big ask for this committee. Alternative: could members of this committee join Members to give it some momentum?
- Does the scope of this committee need to be firmed up at the same time? "Technical" means pretty much everything PKP does in some way. (Refer to topics list -- much of it is "things a member committee wouldn't be interested in")
    - e.g. survey results, strategic relationships, community growth would be of interest to the members committee; controlled vocabularies/FOSS/containers/etc. not so much.
    - How do we manage areas of overlap if there are two committees?
- What about working groups? Spin off by subject with interested parties from any committee/group. ("Interest groups" in PKP's experience.)
- Existing groups: documentation interest group; advisory; technical; membership (moribund); etc.
- Tech subjects (e.g. continuous integration) happen on TC and within dev team; would be good to blend where beneficial
- Technical Committee is a good place to collect engaged people working outside their formal job description. (Could also apply via Interest Groups.)
- What about seeking new & motivated members cttee candidates and connecting them? Proposing subjects for them?
- Would e.g. a designated TC liaison sit on the members committee? Probably sensible. Technical committee would inform members committee would inform advisory committee.
- Kevin will take feedback to directors.

Other topics
------------
- Suggestions for new activities / working groups?

    - Proposal to facilitate the "upgrade process" and define a "last supported version"
        - Documentation: Review, sort and fill the gaps in the existing Admins' documentation (upgrade process, errors KM...).
        - Tooling: Think and propose better upgrade tools (ie: OJS health, upgrade route, db curation...)
        - More info in slack
        - Discussion:
            - Connect with the DIG on sprints? Where would they like help?
                - ACTION: Sonya will introduce topic to Amanda/Kaitlin
                - Mark offers to take the lead as contact person.
                - Clinton and Dulip interested in participating.
            - Discussion within PKP team on forum support including rota; Alec will loop TC into that conversation.


 

Next Meeting
------------

PKP priorities survey - Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific
Next meeting dedicated to survey results review.
