# 18 March 2021

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Alex, Alec, Antti-Jussi, Sonya, Clinton, Dulip, Kevin, Amanda, Emma, Marc
-   Regrets:

Crowdin / Document Translation (Amanda)
------------------------------
- Movements in weblate? https://github.com/WeblateOrg/weblate/issues/3106
- presentation from Emma Uhl
- Current translation platform GitLocalize: some issues that make it difficult for project managing translation work, both lack of features and bugs
- Good time to switch platforms
- Proposed platform is Crowdin - improved support and tools needed to manage translation project
- free for open-source projects
- much better tool for translation team
- DIG wants to move ahead but seeking some feedback from 
- talking about documentation translation only. Weblate still preferred tool for translation of software
- some concerns over gap of suitable OS software for these tools, some risk in adopting multiple translation platforms
- interoperability between weblate and Crowdin? Unsure right now
- Ideal scenario would be to move to crowdin and use it for some time and hopefully weblate

Quick Updates
-------------
### What have you been working on lately?
- **Marc** 
    - First journal finally released (https://educar.uab.cat)... only 49 missing.
        - Implemented a generic migration tool (able to do "migration routes").
        - New infrastructure built over docker.
        - Convervative approach: 3.2.1-4.
        - Detailed attention to each journal (criteria unification)
        - Main issues? 
            - Finding the right "migration path": 2.x > 2.4.8-5 > 3.1.2-4 > 3.2.1-4
            - Issues with Certificates when you are behind proxies.
    - [Videotutorials](https://revistes.uab.cat/web/videotutorials) for basic actions (in catalan).
    -  Helping with the [PKP Service Provider Directory Application](https://surveys.publicknowledgeproject.org/25863).
    -  Helping with the forum.
- **Clinton** - Ask me about OEL/RHEL conversions, EZPAARSE processing of EZProxy logs, Video Streaming in Islandora, etc., but not much on PKP.  Expected progress on COUNTER R5/SUSHI stalled due to student assistant unavailability.
- **AJ**
    - Updated a lot of plugins for 3.2 and 3.3
    - Working on Invite user to a role functionality https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/3022. Hoping to have this for 3.4
    - We opened our OMP platform edition.fi. Will be adding more publishers during the next weeks.
- **Sonya** 
    - Upgraded to 3.2.1-4
    - final push for survey
    - found some help for data analysis
- **Dulip** 
    - a Theme plugin for TIB OJS landing-page
-  **Alex**
    -  Finishing compiling the report for the OJS Working Group meetings with SciELO journal Editors. Currently it's being approved by all participants.
    -  Trying (and failing) to upgrade OJS/OPS 3.3.

Old Business
------------
- February minutes here: https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2021-02-18.md
- Survey updates:
    - 523 complete surveys
    - "Officially" closed March 12, but left open until March 15
    - Michelle Brailey at UAlberta can help with data analysis
- Thank you for updating your terms. To confirm updated term end dates:
    - Sonya Betz  2022
    - Marc Bria 2023
    - Clinton Graham 2022
    - Alex Mendonça 2023 
    - Antti-Jussi Nygård 2023
    - Alec Smecher - PKP Standing member
    - Ronald Steffen 2023
    - Dulip Withanage 2023
- Sonya talked to James / Kevin at PKP about Dev partners / membership (see email Mar 9)


Question of the Month
---------------------
Committees discussion with Kevin Stranack:

How do the different committees and groups fit together? What are opportunities to reconfigure these groups to work together more effectively and increase opportunities for community participation. Please come prepared with questions and ideas about how you'd like to interact with other PKP committees and how we understand the Technical Committee's role within the broader context of PKP groups and governance.

Kevin has been working on reworking membership parameters and ways to recognize / engage members in community 

- first outcome of this work was Service Providers Directory:
    - 2 goals - recognizing work of service providers and provide list of partners
    - Ready for next step in process to add real data to the directory and publicize on the website
    - **ACTION**: provide feedback by end of next week March 26
    - once confirmed, Kevin / Sonya will send email to group to populate with live data for production

- Reconsidering what structures might look like for entities like Members Committee - wondereing what overlap might be between the members committee and the technical committee
- Want to make TC more open and connected with interest groups, Suggestion: form technical interest group and have representation from all interest groups into a central committee?
- desire to continue technical discussions and maintain that high level of in-depth expertise and advisory function


Other topics
------------

Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific
