# November 18, 2021

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Alex, Alec, Ronald, Davin, Antti-Jussi, Clinton, Marc, Sonya, Nathalie
-   Regrets:
    -   Dulip

Introductions
-------------
- Davin has joined the TC (Erudit / Coalition Publica)

Quick Updates
-------------
### What have you been working on lately?
- Alec
    - Automated upgrade testing in place for OMP, OPS, OJS
    - Planning for OJS/OMP/OPS 3.5 and 3.6
    - Alec can share out documentation with the TC via dev channel for questions and feedback
- Marc
    - Moving all service to an external server (nice experience to write about).
- Dulip
    - Grant application writing 
    - Investigations / Problemsolving
        - (Implementing in 2022: the broken functionality of automated crossref doi import in Texture-Editor (obsolelete software), Implemented: Docuemnt Type support for Galley Creation (with Depdendant files) in Texture-Plugin.
        - Current  JATS-XMLs generated by Texture are not Valid against JATS [DTD](https://jats.nlm.nih.gov/publishing/1.2/JATS-journalpublishing1.dtd). Reason: (jornal-meta) fails and cname incompatibility. 
- Sonya
    - planning Library Publishing Forum (submit your proposals!)
- Alex
    - Upgraded SciELO Preprints to OPS 3.3.0-8. Scheduling OJS upgrade now for SciELO Brazil journals.
- AJ
    - Working on OMP imports and preparing a conversion script for generatin OMP XML files from Excel sheets
    - Starting to prepare for OJS 3.3 upgrade
    - Planning what we will have for lunch in the PKP Sprint in June 2022
- Ronald
    - Upgrade DNB plugin for OJS 3.3 (adding new features: depositing Orcid ID, supplementary files, writing tests)
    - Developing plugins for OMP (Langsci Press)
    - Writing grant application (with Dulip)
- Clinton
    - Pitt continues to work on updating our contributed plugins to support OJS 3.3+
    

Introductions
------------
* Welcome to new member Davin Baragiotta from Érudit
* Welcome to Nathalie Vallieres, PKP Communications

Old Business
------------
* October minutes are here: https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2021-10-21.md
* Testing Working Group update:
    * Minutes are now here: https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/testing-committee/meeting-minutes
    * Terms of Reference are here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-sW2pwGSnkAqpG-NzMR5N-bNm9KywJXPamPm-L_7AiQ/edit
    * will start with a upgrade testing and performance testing, with our next meeting focused on defining specific activities and planning how to proceed. 
* Any further discussion, feedback or comments on the LTS proposal? https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_kdl-PgH653m9PC2v0kh-KU7l_3XPUtVSnkKoa7uKCg/edit?pli=1#
    * are there action items for TC?
    * Next steps:
        * Take the proposal to the directors (Alec)
        * Schedule a slot in an operations meeting and invite Sonya (Alec)
* New community members 

## Question of the Month
### Are there actions we (TC) can take to help folks running unsupported versions?
* Marc's brainstorm of potential "solutions" or "helpers":
    * More documentation?
    * A high level upgrade-wizard for editors to help them localize their pain areas and get the proper help? 
    * An upgrade "black-box" that gets you mysqldump and your files and returns a new dump and upgraded files in the last stable version?
    * A compilation of well-known errors and their solutions (a troubleshooting DB)?
    * An "upgrade" campaign focused to those specific journals (offering pkp services and a list of organizations that can help them in the upgrade process)?
    * others?
* What do we know about why the community doesn't stay up to date?
    * There is some commentary in beacon presentation with inferences from detailed version data (Slides 27-33, https://dataverse.harvard.edu/file.xhtml?fileId=5378724&version=1.0)
    * Should we do a survey?
        * Unmaintained installs might not result in survey answers.
    * May not be technical:
        * There are unmaintained/abandoned installations in the wild. e.g. where systems and editorial teams are different, editorial group disappears, systems doesn't know.
    * Ideas about why installs might be old:
        * Hardcoded OJS: As far as the code is open, it's quite common to see forked versions of OJS. Once you open the "pandora's box", you never stop and you finish with a frankenstein-ojs that nobody have the courage to touch. And then, it's difficult to keep the track of the changes (think 2.x is before git) and you need to merge manually.
        * I love my theme: Yes, it's a variant of the former one. Some times journal spend some money in a nice theming and now they don't like to lose it.
        * Multiple OJS: If you decided to go with a single-tenant model, you got some benefits, but one big donwside... you need to upgrade multiple ojs.
        * Damaged OJS: Shit happens. Sometimes you get a journal with corrupted files or an inconsistent DB. And it makes the upgrade crazy.
        * Old plugins: If an specific plugin that is essential to you is not released for 3.x, you can not upgrade.
        * Lack of tech resources: In most of the universities I know the IT services are centralized and it's difficult to get their atention in a project that is not in their hands any more. I mean, sometimes would be difficult for a sub-organization that asked for an OJS installation 10 years ago to request an upgrade...
        * A weird error: Long time since OJS 2.x but is not impossible to think that somebody is getting an upgrade error that don't know how to deal with.
        * ...
* Is this work that we should tackle?
    * Dev team (not TC necessarily) needs to protect its time -- there are improvements starting in 3.3 but going back to older versions will be very time-consuming.

Other topics
------------

Next Meeting
------------

December 16, 2021

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific
