# 18 February 2021

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Marc, Dulip, Alex, Clinton, Marco (Alec was tardy)
- Regrets:

Quick Updates
-------------



### What have you been working on lately?
- **Marc** 
    - Finish PKPsurvey installation issues.
    - Starting UAB service migration (ojs 3.2.1-x over docker in a single iron).
    - "Upgrade to OJS 3" courses.
    - Starting 10-15 new OJS3 videos to show regular actions (no sound, but UI in catalan).
    - Diging into migration issues (losing covers, changes in files names and ubication, multilang)
    - Improvements in the pkp docker official image (ojs 3.3 ready, php symlink).
    - Tying to help more with forum issues.
- **Dulip**
    -  [OJS-DE Newsletter](https://github.com/ojsde/ojs-dev-dach/blob/master/berichte/2020-01.md) with participation request to TC survey.
    -  latex to XML user group for [tralics](https://github.com/tralics/) formed and initial stpes for sustainiability, cooperation and community-outreach planned. Current members : [TIB](https://www.tib.eu) , [inria\[fr\]](https://www.inria.fr/), [Universit√© Grenoble Alpes](https://www.univ-grenoble-alpes.fr/). New  interested  members welcome!
    -  Rosetta Plugin
    -  OJS 3.2 - Server installation
    -  Child theme for portal (initial tests)
- **Alex**
    - Survey dissemination
    - Testing upgrades to OJS/OPS 3.3
    - Adapting custom developed OPS plugins for 3.3
    - Adding in GitHub custom developed OPS plugins
    - Consolidating report of the SciELO Brazil journals working group from 2020
- **Sonya**
    - Survey dissemination
    - Documentation month for Library Publishing Coalition
- **Clinton**
    - No updates; frayed edges with OEL to RHEL migration professionally and no power and water personally.
- **Marco**
    - TIB has become a major development partner (with special interests in grey literature and conference and video archiving); Marco will be stepping off this committee to join the Advisory Committee. See [PKP news](https://pkp.sfu.ca/2021/02/16/pkp-welcomes-first-european-development-partner-tib/), [Marco's blog post](https://blogs.tib.eu/wp/tib/2021/02/16/tib-and-pkp/)


Old Business
------------
- January minutes are here: https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/master/meeting-minutes/2021-01-21.md
- Survey updates:
    - 285 complete; 105 partial completions so far!
    - survey closes March 12
    - Please share widely with your own networks using the template email and invite
        - Was posted to Forum Announcements channel; Sonya will check in with Marisa regarding posting to the Questions section in case people want to share questions or feedback about the survey.
    - volunteers to help with analysis of data?
        - early question: is the survey still to complex with 1/3 completions still only partial?  To be reviewed as the survey closes.  Incomplete answers could also be represented by completed answers later.  We could try to associate incomplete answers with later compeleted answers by IP address.  **TODO**: look into research literature to determine whether or not to use incomplete responses.
        - could we hand off this data to Assessment units within SFU/PKP/Parters for analysis?
        - Analysis of the open question fields may be the most complex work.
    

New Business
------------
- Membership - new TOR (https://pkp.sfu.ca/about/organization/technical-committee/) indicate: 
    - Renewable two year terms, starting April 1 
    - Members wishing to renew their membership on the Technical Committee will notify the Chair of their intent two months prior to the expiration of their term.
    - if you would like to renew your membership for another 2 year term, please email Sonya before March 1
        - current members may also opt to renew for a 1 year term to help to stagger the term renewal.
    - Missing dev partner members for OCUL, SFU, UBC, Stanford?
        - This was last discussed with Brian Owen in 2018.  At that time, it was judged that partners were happy with their current participation.  **TODO**: Sonya will reach out to the Advisory Committee to try to make these connections.
    - volunteers to draft a new call for members and plan to distribute, for TC to review next meeting?
        - Clinton has interest, but probably won't be able to meet the timeline.
        - It will be helpful to clearly define what contribution to the committee looks like, and given the expectations, look for known contributors
        - There is a balance of inviting known contributors against looking for new participants with fresh perspective.
        - N.b.: special interest in connecting with OJS user community in Asia/Pacific.
        - Let's try to coordinate conversation via email (Tech Committee Google Group).

- 3.2.1-x and 3.3 releases (Alec)
    - Security issue: https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/6718 (resolved in current releases)
    - Have seen issue with mixed storage engines in upgrades; will likely not be a fix within the software, but a recommendation for correction at the database level.  (We recommend InnoDB for MySQL/MariaDB.)
    - We are working on building trust for new releases by implementing our new testing procedures.  Future upgrades will be faster and more reliable because of dependency changes.  PKP Hosting remains a bit behind the curve because of infrastucture issues, but would upgrade quickly if the infrastructre allowed it.  Work still needs to be done on building this trust in the community.
    - Branch rename: master to main
- PKP Service Providers Directory form feedback
    - Will be migrated to LimeSurvey tool
    - Pitt has some challenges with distinctions between roles as Publisher, Hosting Provider, and others
- 3.4 & 3.5 Milestone Planning (Alec)
    - Roadmap: https://pkp.sfu.ca/roadmap
    - 3.4 is targeted at Q4 2021
    - A lot of external and third party obligations are being targted in the near future.
    - Anticipated drop of PKP Index and OHS due to competing priorities.
    - Hoping for survey results to confirm or adjust priorities currently in the roadmap.
    - Trying to tighten up the upgrade process in order to limit the long-tail of legacy support, which will help us to focus on new features.
- [TABLE FOR MARCH] What would we like to focus on for 2021 (ideas from January meeting)?
    - Analyzing survey data
    - Revisiting XML roadmap (assessing Libero)
        - Dulip: Some interest in supporting LaTeX as part of an XML workflow (LaTeX to JATS) (possible 2 year effort)
    - 5 point integrity intiative (possible)
    - Analysis of beacon data
        Underway within PKP! Please join us (#beacon Slack channel)
    - taxonomies and standards used (or coming) but not yet in OJS:
        - https://www.coar-repositories.org/news-updates/what-we-do/controlled-vocabularies/ (A-J's OpenAIRE plugin involves COAR)
        - https://casrai.org/CRediT/
        - subject taxonomies are of interest to PKP hosting
        - what kind of taxonomies we could/should support technically - produce a document (map or list)


- Translator Contribution Acknowledgement
    - PKP is currently working on improving that.

Next Meeting
------------

March 18: 8am Pacific
