# 21 October 2021

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Marc, Alex, Clinton, Dulip, Ronald, Alec, Antti-Jussi, Pierre
-   Regrets: Sonya

Quick Updates
-------------
### What have you been working on lately?
- **Alec**
    - Publishing sample datasets (https://github.com/pkp/datasets/)
        - Currently stored in GitHub, and run in Travis, but could move elsewhere.
        - Travis is limited to a certain number of queues
        - Added tests are anticipated to be very quick, live tests will be more time intensive and may be scheduled weekly
        - TODO: determine how to manage that third party data
    - Upgrade testing
    - Planning for 3.5 and 3.6
- **Alex**
    - Not much (vacation!)
    - Fine-tuning PREreview plugin for OPS.
- **Marc**
    - University having IT problems
    - All down since 11 oct and still don't get a date for network recovering.
    - Our journals (under debian and docker) had no harm.
    - Not leaving UAB (yet).
- **Dulip**
    - Rosetta Long term archiving plugin - finished, As  Rosetta is a commercial software did not publically advertise it. But will put in github under GPL3
        - This plugin does provide METS support, which might be generally interesting.
- **AJ**
    - Working on some custom plugins for our own (national) use
- **Ronald**
    - Upgarding DNB plugin to OJS 3.3 (adding supplementary material, Orcid)
    - accessibility statement template for our journals
- **Pierre**
    - Upgrade to 3.3.0.8 to solve a problem with Ã‰rudit-OJS gateway.
- **Clinton**
    - Pitt is working on plugin support for 3.3+ for ULS plugins.

### Highlight of the month: ###

Old Business
------------
- September minutes are here: https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2021-09-16.md
- Testing working group had its first meeting. Notes are here: https://hackmd.io/ZDlzUIkCSV-GjkmGV6Sa7w?both
    - Defined aim of group, discussed internal organization (finalization still pending)
    - next meeting on October 28 9am Pacific (thank you Ronald for organizing). 
    - If others are interested in joining, the invitation is open (ping dev-partners in Slack)
    - A. Gerhart could be a good addition
- Technical Upgrade Guide is now live on the docs hub! https://docs.pkp.sfu.ca/dev/upgrade-guide/
    - Thanks, Marc!
    - Still TODO: a "quickstart" guide, to be done in the next couple of months
    - Question of Attribution: should contributors be named in the opening of the document, as per the Metadata Guide?  May have implications for translations, etc.
        - We want to acknowledge contributions
        - We don't want to maintain unweildy lists as they change over time
        - We see that we didn't effectively capture that in GitHub metadata
        - Alec and Marc will raise with the DIG the idea of adding a new page of contributors: categorized by creators, translators, contributors.
    - Q: where does this get shared? Can we work with Nathalie to distribute broadly?
        - Yes, Alec will connect with Nathalie.


New discussions
---------------------
- Retiring old upgrade scripts (see October 8 email from Alec)
    - ADODB is a heavy legacy liablity until we remove support for upgrades to 3.2
    - Proposal: remove support for one major release per major release
    - TODO: Alec will provide graph of 3.x version usage
    - This is connected with the LTS option
        - We should be able to upgrade from LTS to LTS version
        - Alec will re-share the LTS proposal, please review so we can get this to the directors
        - We have as a TODO the method of determining what we identify as LTS
    - Unsupported upgrades will refer to UPGRADE-UNSUPPORTED.md, which will be updated with this policy.
    - Could 3.2 be a hard cut over?
        - Alec will check on install distribution.
        - We want to make this as pain free as possible for the most folks

- Multijournal hosting and shared user accounts (see October 19 email from Alec)
    - PKP hosting has been asking for this in order to scale effectively
    - SciELO is hitting restrictions between user accounts
    - Goal: don't introduce two modes of operation
    - Consider separating: user accounts from journal contract (sounds a lot like OAuth/OpenID)
    - Plugins
        - Examples of segmenting plugins: Drupal divides into "all" and per-site directories for plugin installs.
        - Neither PKP|PS nor SciELO have a critical problem with plugins at the moment.
    - Consider needs for multijournal management and user identity management (portal, off the shelf tooling, API integration, etc.)
    
Next Meeting
------------

November 18, 2021
