# 21 January 2021

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: AS, Sonya Betz, Clinton, Antti-Jussi, MB, (others)
-   Regrets:

Quick Updates
-------------
### What have you been working on lately?
- **Alec**
    - Portico plugin released for OJS
    - Assessed Coral for commenting (pretty good!): https://coralproject.net/
        - Has a "journalist" role in cmomenting indicating expertise
        - Not context-specific -- comments are on the whole article
        - Integration is trivial
- **Marc**
    - Working in our infrastructure/sites migration (OJS 3.2.1-3 over docker).
    - "Mentoring" new translation to Galego for OJS&OMP.
- **Dulip**
    - Rosetta Long-term archiving Plugin
    - ROR Plugin for OJS 3.3
- **AJ**
    - Crossref plugin for OMP (based on Dulip's) https://github.com/ajnyga/datacite/tree/crossref
    - OMP quicksubmit to support DOIs https://github.com/ajnyga/quickSubmit/tree/omp
    - lot's of Journal.fi work...
- **Clinton**
    - Community-based enhancements to betterPassword incoming:
        - prevent password reuse
        - expire passwords
    - Continued work on upgraded plugin for COUNTER/SUSHI R5
    - Continued work on certifying plugins for 3.2 in time for them to be out-of-date with 3.3
- **Sonya**
    - upgrading to 3.2.1-2
    - release testing for 3.3 (just getting set up so may miss the actual release deadline but will carry on regardless )

Old Business
------------
- December minutes are here: https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/master/meeting-minutes/2020-12-17.md
- Survey update (Sonya, Marc)
    - Invite list is fairly short; can expand? (Alex has a network.)
    - Has it been tested outside PKP and committees? Not yet but Sonya can do this.
    - Hoping to send it out by the end of January.
    - Data policy: referring to data or results? This language has been tweaked; results are shareable. Data policy necessary for email addresses. UAB needs description.
    - Future Action item: Set up a joint meeting between survey group and some part of PKP team to talk about results? Subset of PKP Operations and PKP Technical. Suggest hosting that during this meeting, when information is ready.
    - Hosting/domain: Has been complicated, but will result in a PKP domain for LimeSurvey hosted at UAB, and an agreement between the two orgs. (PKP can't handle Docker yet.) Will result in a single line indicating data provenance on the server, and can use it for future surveys.

New Business
------------
- Beacon demo (Alec) 
    - allows PKP to collect info about OJS / OMP/ OPS instances and versions. Could possibly provide security notices
    - Beacon analysis es esential for PKP and TC to have a clear answer tot questions like:
        - How many sites are still in 2.x branch?
        - How many sites are multilingual?
        - What tird-party plugins are more extended?
        - What plugins are usually enabled by default?
        - How many articles are usually included in each number?
        - ...
    - Continued in point "what would we like to focus on 2021?"
- Security issue
    - https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/6632 - some detailed info about patching to pay attention to. 
- Releases
    - OJS/OMP/OPS 3.2.1-3 - coming very soon. 
    - OJS/OMP/OPS 3.3 - aiming for Feb 1 release date
        - Community testing!
            - Thanks to all who participated!
            - Lost some momentum after holidays; next time would send an early reminder (or avoid the holidays)
        - Translation work proceeding well
- Plans for the year:
    - what would we like to focus on for 2021?
        - Analyzing survey data
        - Revisiting XML roadmap (assessing Libero)
            - Dulip: Some interest in supporting LaTeX as part of an XML workflow (LaTeX to JATS) (possible 2 year effort)
        - 5 point integrity intiative (possible)
        - Analysis of beacon data
            - Underway within PKP! Please join us (#beacon Slack channel)
        - taxonomies and standards used (or coming) but not yet in OJS: 
            - https://www.coar-repositories.org/news-updates/what-we-do/controlled-vocabularies/ (A-J's OpenAIRE plugin involves COAR)
            - https://casrai.org/CRediT/
            - subject taxonomies are of interest to PKP hosting
            - what kind of taxonomies we could/should support technically - produce a document (map or list)

## Next Meeting
- Review membership terms (start/end)
- Review next steps for 2021 (from above)

- February 18, 2021: 8am Pacific
