# 16 September 2021

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Alex, Pierre, Alec, Nate, Sonya, Antti-Jussi, Dulip, Clinton, Marc
-   Regrets: Ronald

Quick Updates
-------------
### What have you been working on lately?
- **Alex** - Overseeing development and portability of a few plugins: PREreview (OPS), Dataverse (OJS/OPS), How to cite (OPS); ongoing work on the SciELO/PKP partnership; Upgrading OJS to 3.3 and OPS to 3.3.0-8.
- **Sonya** - See items below re membership and communications. Working on transitioning role for duration of 1 year leave. UofA likely waiting on 3.3 upgrade until 3.3.1 released
    - The 3.3.1 release has been mothballed in favour of going directly to 3.4 -- but PKP will continue to release 3.3.0-x builds.
- **Pierre** - Migration to OJS 3.3.0.6 with MySQL, in replacement of MS SQL.
- **AJ** 
    - Closing a couple of minor OPS issues
    - Working on align URL structure in OPS/OJS/OMP https://github.com/pkp/ojs/pull/3123
    - Building a tsvConverter kind import procedure for OMP for larger book imports to Edition.fi (https://github.com/ajnyga/tsvConverter)
- **Clinton** - Dreaming of work relevant to PKP, but ask me about Special Collections, EAD, Islandora, and Aeon.  (or not)
- **Alec** - Dev team is merging a lot of big changes to the DAOs and database management. Some of you have noticed already!
- **Dulip** - XML-Latex work. 
- **Marc** - 
    - Dealing with statistics in 3.2.1.
    - Preliminary work to ask for a grant for XML workflow tools.
    - Little research over gitLab CI/CD tooling.


### Highlight of the month: ###

Old Business
------------
- August minutes are here: https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2021-08-19.md
- Membership update - sent to advisory committee and received no further feedback. Next step is to recruit some new members.
    - Deadline set for August 30th; Alan sent a note Advisory will chat about it at next meeting (Friday). We can probably expect a go-ahead then.
- Sonya and Alec met with Natalie, new PKP communications manager to talk about near term communications priorities  (eg survey, recruitment of new members, engaging community in TC work). Natalie will attend upcominig meetings (had conflict with this one)
    - PKP is look a 1-year strategic plan to bridge the gap to the new Managing Director, followed by a more fulsome process to set the next 5-year plan. The TC would like to be involved in the document; Sonya and Alec will follow up with James.
- Testing working group - scheduling first meeting. Main outcomes:
    - a good sense of what the main activities of this group will be
    - who else should be involved (from within or outside of the PKP organization / community)
        - A-J suggests membership from Denmark, Netherlands, perhaps Sweden. They have upgrade challenges and likely feedback.
        - Someone from SciELO.
    - who would like to lead this group (who is not Sonya!)
    - some idea of how this group will function, especially with regards to connecting with PKP development team
    - other big questions?
    - First meeting is undergoing scheduling. Should this be a small group (internal) or larger (including others)?
    - Need to set expectations about what we'll talk about WRT outside participants; we won't be debugging individual problems
    - Take a look to existing testing tooling to know what is possible.
    - Proposal: Let's meet with a small/inside group, then discuss how to extend participation and membership.
    - What is the role of the group? Making recommendations vs. doing the work.
      - PKP is small; going beyond that into doing some of the coordination and work would be valuable.
- Admin documentation WG - update? 
    - Almost finished...
    - Many of us have privately-kept (e.g. Word) docs containing the specific commands we use :)
    - Next steps:
        - Katelin will spread a final version at the end of the month for last review before release.
        - Then if people is not tired, hope to follow with the TL;DR; guide version.
        - Documentation working group input?
            - Katelin plans to ask for feedback with the Slack channel
        - What about updating documents? Is there some kind of review schedule used?
            - Nate reviews the main developer documentation before every major release. Recommends building this into the release cycle.
            - What about snowballing of documentation? Should we consider a knowledge base?
                - That would probably need to start elsewhere (e.g. support group), but this group will be kept in the loop.
                - Everyone has their own set of solutions/knowledge but it is not generally shared/stewarded (e.g. PKP hosting, Antti-Jussi, UAB, PKP devs)
                - Let's table this for a proper examination!

Question of the Month
---------------------
### Release and testing planning: For discussion - Carried over from July / August meetings

**Main points:**
1. We schedule major work to expand our integration tests in 3.5. We would identify gaps in our existing tests and write tests to cover a more diverse set of workflows, user roles, published material, plugin configurations, etc. We would also try to acquire historical test data from our community and use this to test more diverse upgrade environments.

2. We try to increase adoption of automated testing in our community. We could write documentation and invest in tooling to help service providers write and run automated tests against their platforms. The key here would be automation: the more we can automate the testing process in a production environment, the more frequently the tests will be run. For us to tackle this problem, we need the community to run tests regularly (eg - quarterly) against pre-release software -- not just when they get around to upgrading.

3. We introduce a LTS version that will only receive fixes for critical bugs and security issues. I don't think this necessarily solves the pain of upgrades, but providing a 3-5 year committent to one version will at least give service providers some peace of mind that they won't be forced to upgrade on a timetable they can't keep.

Questions:
- naming - what becomes the LTS version? Support for clear labelling, and stable version - how do we determine what become the new LTS branch? What tools are needed? Calendar could help with this (eg ensure that version is designated for 3-5 years to ensure stability)
- What's required to move these initatives forward? Develop a proposal for the directors.
    - There is a draft proposal in early stages -- Alec will share
- what resources and committment from PKP (and stakeholders including Technical Committee) is needed to move in these  directions? 
    - Writing a test is a big contribution.
    - Need to build a culture of automated testing within the community. This could be great for the testing group.
        - Technical resources for community testers/automated test contributors
            - Testing OJS on data sets *before* practically attempting to run an upgrade -- e.g. before release
        - Documentation -- e.g. "How would I test an upgrade before I perform it? How would I upgrade on e.g. a 3-year cycle?"
        - For other projects (e.g. PHP), it's expected that you'll write a test to go along with a code contribution. This would be a big ask for our community but we could at least develop the resources/infrastructure to support it.
    - Where do we even start?
        - Upgrade blockers:
            - Trusting that plugins will work with new version (integration testing at plugin level is brilliant)
            - Trusting that data will migrate successfully. This is the entire universe of data.
                - (See: https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/6093 -- data integrity, but also pre-flight upgrade checks. For 3.4.)
                - Failed upgrades need restarting from the beginning (but possibly not forever -- see pre-flight checks above)
                - This will be an ongoing source of work!
- Plugins: need to flesh out implications (testing; maintenance; pain points; release schedule and updating)
    - Would an LTS release detract from pressure to keep e.g. plugins up to date?
- What would happen if an LTS is adopted but someone wants to back-port a new feature?
    - Should PKP accept back-ports officially or no? Should this be the burden assumed with using an LTS?
- Perspective on community testing: Would like to participate but investment of time is considerable. Not sure tooling will help. Database and files are huge.
- what role could a Technical Committee testing working group have? How could this group work effectively with the development team to make progress?
- other questions?

Other topics
------------

Next Meeting
------------
October 21, 2021
