# Thursday June 17

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Alex, Sonya, Pierre, Marc, Dulip, Clinton, Pierre
-   Regrets:

Welcome and introductions
-------------------------

Quick Updates
-------------
- Introduction: Pierre (Laval)

### What have you been working on lately?
- **Alec**
    - Beacon: Community data review
    - Major changes for OJS/OMP/OPS 3.4:
        - Code reformatting
        - Namespaces/constant encapsulation
        - Repositories, Collectors, DAOs: see slack conversation [link was here]
    - Conversation in PKP hosting re: FOSS and free-hosted options
- **Dulip**
    - TIB OP yesterday published the [conference](https://www.tib-op.org/ojs/index.php/th-wildau-ensp/)  using the OJS XML workflow. This workflow uses DOCX files as input files (a template given to the authors) and uses docxConverter to convert them and Texture Editor and the lensGalleyBits plugin
    - Next steps:
         - latex to jats  conversion plugin using [tralics](https://github.com/tralics/)
- **Marc**
    - Finishing OJS3 migration (only 3 missing journals!!)
    - Beacon: Review spanish data.
    - Documentation: upgrade guide.
- **Alex**
    - OPS upgraded to 3.3!
    - Dealing with slow upgrade (over 48 hours) for OJS 3.3.


Old Business
------------
### Previous minutes
- May minutes are here: https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2021-05-20.md

### Ongoing work
- Survey next steps
    - Would like Nate to attend next meeting (July) re: connecting this effort with the dev/release cycle

- Update from Admin documentation Working Group (Marc, Dulip, Clinton)
    - What to do: [link was here]
    - What we have done (till now): [link was here]
        - DIG has been involved: requirements definition / writing experts.
        - Documented based on LAMP stack.
        - Alec will pass by the hosting team.
        - ACTION: Review of content requested from members of TC
            - add comments (inline or with comment feature) or reach out to members of the group.
            - Feedback by July 2 would be great!
        - Hoping writing is finished in 1-3 weeks
        - Deadline for review from TC members July 2 - please focus on use cases in addition to edits / copyedits

- Recruiting additional members per TOR: https://pkp.sfu.ca/about/organization/technical-committee/
    -  required from: OCUL, SFU, Stanford, UBC
        -  We could approach advisory committee? Alec will email Sonya and Allan.
    -  call to membership seeking expressions of interest for two more?  
        - Representation: Indonesia? (Africa? Other underrepresented regions?)
        - Would a public call expose us to tricky questions (e.g. commercial vendors)?
        - Could identify candidates using beacon data? Would want someone who is an active (or potentially active) community member rather than just a host
        - Getting the call right helps find the right people. Don't want to be exclusive. (Echoes equity and inclusion recommendations for hiring)
        - Translation tools as another source?
        - How many do we need? Group favours 3 more.
    

Questions of the Month
---------------------

- Retiring OCS
  - Given that there are not unlimited resources for development and given its state of abandonment should PKP announce the discontinuation of OCS?
      - TC agrees in discontinue OCS.
      - TC recommends PKP to make an official announcement to discourage new installations.
      - Discussion of alternatives should go to the forum to evolve.
  - If we have to announce the discontinuation of OCS which free developments do we consider to be the best substitutes for these tools?
      - Review [indico](https://getindico.io/) / [hotcrp](https://hotcrp.com) as replacements recomendations.
      - archived contents: migration to OJS?
      - TIB project?
  - Can we know who is using OCS?
      - Beacon not included in OCS


Other topics
------------
- AGM: Tomorrow at 9am Pacific!
- August meeting: Conversation around processes and consultation for decommissioning products.
    
Next Meeting
------------
- Thursday, July 16, 8am Pacific - Sonya away: volunteers for chairing?


To talk in future
-----------------

- Google FLOC 
    - Q from Nate W: “I’d like some feedback from our community, especially the Tech Committee, on the new surveillance technology being added to Chrome, and whether we should take steps within our applications to block this. Details here: https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/6961”

- PKP soft continuity:
    - Should PKP retire OHS and OTS too?
        - Is there a way to discover how many people is still using OHS and OTS?
        - If we decide to recomend the discontinuation of OHS or OTS, which free developments do we consider to be the best substitutes for these tools?

- Version policy and PKP updates.
    - In short, the number of versions released by PKP can lead to the abandonment of some journals that, given their very limited resources, cannot assume the migration to the latest stable version. .. or they cannot update as often as new releases are released.
    - The TC we should stop for a moment to talk about how to achieve a flatter upgrade process... evaluating changes in the version policy (debian/php model? often "non-braking" releases, only a few breaking ones), improvements in upgrade tools (selfbackup, one-click upgrade) or whatever we can think of so as not to leave anyone behind.



