# 20 January 2022

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Sonya, Alex, Alec, Dulip, Davin, Pierre, Clinton, Ronald, Marc
-   Regrets:

Quick Updates
-------------
### What have you been working on lately?
- **Alec**
    - Synthetic test data in datasets repo now goes back to OJS 3.1.0
    - PKP dev team is hiring!
- **Dulip**
    - Funding : 
        - Grant applications writing and related work
        - TIB / Uni MÃ¼nster - optimeta citations:  alpha release the TIB developers, WIP ([git repo](https://github.com/TIBHannover/optimetaCitations)  , [citation addiing](https://github.com/TIBHannover/optimetaCitations/blob/main/images/optimeta-citations-submission-add.gif)).  Functional specification review for Backend, Code review pending
    - Community: German Developer Newsletter 
    - Hosting : Sword Plugin testing for institutional clients, multi-linugal hosting consulation for wiki imports to OJS

- **Marc**
    - Monitoring service at journal level:
        - URL: https://monitor.precarietat.net/status
        - Notifications by mail and telegram.
        - Looks cooler in the backend:
            - ![](https://i.imgur.com/aKnJglR.png)
        - Includes a list of URLs to ping; records ping time
        - Can be a simple addition to the Docker toolset but also can be added outside Docker
    - Starting a new portal for the service based on drupal9.
   
- **Clinton**
    - Ongoing 3.3 plugin updates
    - Vanessa Gabler moves on to ePlasty
        - Pause to OJS 3.x upgrades
    - Should we have tech representation on the DIG Sprints?
        - There are communication gaps between groups; would be great to have DIG / technical committee cross-representation. Time is the issue.
        - There are several DIG projects that could use technical chops...
            - Automated screenshots
            - Search features
        - Sonya will connect with Amanda to talk strategy; they are in the process of appointing a new chair.
-  **Alex**
    - ROR, Funding plugins ported to OPS (with Lepidus' help);
    - Finished an MVP version for the Dataverse plugin for OPS (with Lepidus' help);
    - Upgrading SciELO Chile to OJS 3 (the only installation we have left still using OJS 2)
    - PKP Survey report published in [Portuguese](https://blog.scielo.org/blog/2022/01/12/relatorio-da-pesquisa-sobre-prioridades-da-comunidade-ojs-publicado-originalmente-no-site-do-pkp/) and [Spanish](https://blog.scielo.org/es/2022/01/12/informe-sobre-la-encuesta-de-prioridades-de-la-comunidad-ojs-publicado-originalmente-en-el-sitio-web-de-pkp/#.YemFuv7MLIU) (thanks Marc!)

- **Ronald**
    - testing DNB-Plugin for OJS 3.3
    - accessibility decalartion
    - project work/development (XML workflow)
- **Name**
    - item
    - item


### Highlight of the month: ###

Old Business
------------
* November meeting notes here: https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2021-11-18.md
* Testing Working Group update:
    * minutes here: https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/testing-committee/meeting-minutes
    * developing a list of "health checks" and method for running some fo these tests as a place to start
    * collecting and documenting our own internal testing procedures to understand what each institution is doing and how we might learn from each other.
        * If you have upgrade procedures documented (even for your own use), please pass them to the committee! Not for publication, and no judgment if they are a mess.
* Final survey report - posted just before Christmas: https://pkp.sfu.ca/about/organization/technical-committee/pkp-technical-committee-ojs-community-priorities-survey-results/
    * AND translated into Portuguese (https://blog.scielo.org/blog/2022/01/12/relatorio-da-pesquisa-sobre-prioridades-da-comunidade-ojs-publicado-originalmente-no-site-do-pkp/#.Yd8j173MLIU) and Spanish (https://blog.scielo.org/es/2022/01/12/informe-sobre-la-encuesta-de-prioridades-de-la-comunidad-ojs-publicado-originalmente-en-el-sitio-web-de-pkp/#.Yd8j_73MLIU) Big kudos to Alex and Marc for this, and to Scielo!
* Actions to help people upgrade:
    * Sonya and Pierre met with Nathalie to plan out a blog post and Social Media campaign for early February "why should I upgrade?" - can roll into LTS communications very nicely. May seek some more input from TC in the form of convincing quotes.
    * Are there any further actions we want to take on this? 
        * Possible to reach out to individuals on a regional basis to nudge them about upgrade communications
        * What about e.g. Indonesia? How many of those are old?
            * Beacon includes version, country, and active/inactive state. Need analysis that incorporates all 3 to determine communities with active, old installations.
            * "Active" means that a journal has published at least 5 articles in the last year, with the year changing over on June 1st.
            * Alec will try to come up with some quick data and share on Slack. This will determine whether particular communities have better/worse challenges.
            * In many cases, technical resouces don't know much about OJS or resources may not be available. This may not be PKP's problem to solve, but it might be possible to get funding to work on tooling.
            * What about non-technical arguments?
                    * Ways to help JMs or administrators to secure necessary technical resources?
                    * Clarity on benefits of upgrading -- new features etc.
    * There are other initiatives that are related and should be connected:
        * PKP is working in Latin America (Alejandra)
        * PKP is working in Morocco (Jason)
    * LTS
        * Communication is being drafted, it'll be published very soon (declaring 3.3.0 as LTS).

Question of the Month
---------------------
* Alternatives to Google analytics - documentation project? (Marc): https://hackmd.io/rTjJyIkvTpKFlVsWMN5Ybw
    * We currently support Matomo via a plugin
    * Integrating any of them should be possible e.g. with Custom Header plugin to inject JS
    * Would like to avoid wiki-like list of options -- maybe refer to an existing list?
    * Marc, Pierre and Davin will investigate analytics alternative and bring back recommendation to Tech Committee. Marc will initiate when he has time.
        * Plan of work (proposal)
            * Make a list of tools (searching or asking partners too)
            * Create (or find) a table of features.
            * Bring this table to TC to decide 4-5 options.
            * Analize if those 4-5 option are doing what they promise.
            * Select the best 2-3 of this list and install it to test.
            * Bring back to TC with a recommendation
            * Contact DIG team to decide if we:
                * Create a new document.
                * Extend the admin guide.
    * Once we have recommendation, Sonya will connect Marc, Pierre and Davin with a potential DIG contact to write a how-to guide.
    * Need to consider relationship between web and scholarly stats; also data privacy. (e.g. COUNTER filtering, IP address hashing, etc.)

Other topics
------------
* As per our Terms of Reference (https://pkp.sfu.ca/about/organization/technical-committee/) terms expire at the end of March. If your term is expiring this year, please let me know via email before our next meeting if you would like to extend your membership for an additional two year term.
* Expect a call for Nominations for Chair selection as well before Feb 1.

Next Meeting
------------

February 17, 2022: 8am Pacific
