# 15 December 2022

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Marc, Dulip, Ronald, Davin, Rick, Alec, Sonya, Pierre
- Regrets: Alex (agenda conflict), AJ (driving)

[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes)


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Alex**
    - MVP Dataverse plugin for OPS released! (with Lepidus): https://github.com/lepidus/dataversePlugin
    - Testing & contributions are welcome!

- **AJ**
    - OMP Quicksubmit for 3.3 https://github.com/ajnyga/quickSubmit/tree/omp
    - OMP Crossref plugin for 3.3 https://github.com/ajnyga/datacite/tree/crossref
    - Having interviews with four developers next week to work in a three year EU project on OJS dev
        - First project press release: https://operas.hypotheses.org/6016 Probably more to come in the next days, if Dulip is here he can maybe explain more. In any case, a substantial amount of development work on OJS!

- **Dulip**
    - EU project - Developer for 3 years  selected
    - XML Application -  final writing reviews
    - Development
        - OJS 3.3 support for ROR plugin, when UI disabled for multiple-languages
        - Texture create galleyes for 3.3
    - Conference-support
        - Concept for adding conference identifiers for OJS 3.3
- **Marc**
    - Advisory meeting.
    - Plagiarism research.
    - Helping fellows in ojs 2 > 3 migrations.
    - New collective post about [sql queries](https://forum.pkp.sfu.ca/t/collaborative-list-of-of-queries/75875). 
    - Exploring partners/fundings for a OxS to Dolibarr integration. 
- **Davin**
    - Still working on JATS format conversion (from Érudit, my organization, internal XML)
        - Convertion from EruditArticle XML to a JATS Archive 1.2, JATS4R compliant, JATS4M compliant (Texture/Libero Editor JATS implementation)
        - 226000 articles to convert, focus on articles published last year
        - goal: propose a JATS format for OJS ecosystem to partners (PKP, Scielo, Métopes, plugins developers)
- **Alec**
    - Submission wizard merged into OJS/OMP/OPS (Nate's work). Now accessible, "save and return", looks really nice.
    - Submission tests rewritten.
    - Working on translation summiting finally.
    - PKP will launch the new website very soon! It strikes a tough balance between SFU and "OJS/OMP/OPS" branding -- it'll be a source of ongoing discussion. But it's a lot better than the old website.
    - Working with Metabase for non-expert data analysis and reports
    - Question: ethics around outsourcing. Does anyone have a policy or ideas? (Context: potentially developing services within PKP)
- **Rick**
    - Working on improving error handling and notifications in pkp/plagiarism plugin. Specifically, notifying managers when the plugin fails to connect to the iThenticate API.
- **Ronald**
    - XML Workflows for docx -> Jats/Bits XML -> HTML -> PDF conversion
    - Journal upgrades




### Highlight of the month: ###

- None


Agenda
------

- Advisory Committee's summary. (link removed)
- Feedback on Nate's short admin's guide
- Spam: Spammers and spam accounts?
    - What fellows are doing?
        - Ronald: 
            - Spam users in some journals (not all).
            - Honeypot plugin fixed most of the problems.
            - Most of the spam comes from previous versions (> 3.1)
        - Alec: Not sure what the goal of spam registrations is. If anyone encounters spammer content being indexed by search engines, please let PKP know! Previously this appeared in biographies and user interest fields; not aware of anything in recent releases.
        - Sonya: Have lots of old OJS spam accounts. Seems like new registrations are handled but historical data is a problem. Anyone have strategies for cleaning these up?
            - Ronald: JMs need to identify the spam accounts. We send a list to them in a spreadsheet.
            - Dulip: There's a PR from the Helsinki sprint to add a script to [delete unfinished submissions](https://pkp.sfu.ca/2022/08/05/helsinki-2022-sprint-notes-released-cleaning-incomplete-submissions/).
        - Marc: [We do this](https://forum.pkp.sfu.ca/t/collaborative-list-of-spam-user-patterns/65190/3)
            - A long time ago James/Clinton/possibly others came up with a few queries to generate lists of potential spammers. Former post summarizes their experiences and was extended with new recipies.
            - The user into which merged assets get placed gets extremely slow.
        - Alec: Discourse has some good policies, and explicitly avoids approaches that require manual intervention. We could probably adopt their work.


Notes
-----


Old Business
------------

- JATS: What's the current state of XML (JATS) creation and usage in OJS ecosystem
- Sprints: Report back form directors on sprints
- Documentation: Help DIG team with new/existing documentation/tools?
- Community: Need to recover community committee?
- Support: Proposals to facilitate support work: Knowledge base tool?


Question of the Month
---------------------
Does anyone have opinions/institutional policies on outsourcing and procurement? For example, if considering a service launch that will require labour and it may be sourced from a lower income country?

Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific
