# 20 October 2022

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Alex, Alec, Ronald, Sonya, Marc, Antti, Davin
-   Chair: Marc

[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/267da79ea676e8cdd3305688b3b0421604b9f5d0/meeting-minutes)


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Marc**
    - pkpContainers: 
        - Rethinking docker-ojs project to
            - Cover any OxS tool.
            - Use OCI standarized images (for docker, k8s, podman...).
            - Improve the historical issues (multi-stage)
            - Take adventage of gitHubActions (CI/CD tools)
    - Course about OJS/OMP:
        - [OJS](https://bit.ly/une-ojs-2022)
        - [OMP](https://bit.ly/une-omp-2022)
        - Valuable feedback about OMP issues/known problems.
    - Research on gitOps to automatize the publishing service. 
- **Alex**
    - SciELO Chile OJS *finally* upgraded to OJS 3! -- no more OJS 2 for us, yay!
    - Altmetrics/Dimensions/PlumX badges plugin ported to OPS (with Lepidus)
    - Working on exterminating robot users within the SciELO Brazil OJS (with epidus)
        - Scripts need to evolve with trends in robots
        - They are happy to talk with anyone about strategies
        - Would be a good agenda topic -- lots of interest :)
        - Email bounce-backs are a metric -- can negatively impact domain reputation
            - Using a single sender account can help with this
        - If anyone can identify spammer incentives, please share with PKP.
        - Both user disable and merge tools are helpful (e.g. disable with reason; leave for a long time; if no pushback, merge the account)
        - Clinton / Pittsburgh has plugins and may be interested in subject
        - Patterns identified in forum: https://forum.pkp.sfu.ca/t/collaborative-list-of-spam-user-patterns/65190
    - Pre-moderation plugin using Plaudit for OPS (with Lepidus)
    - SciELO journals pilot migration from ScholarOne to OJS (with Alec)
- **Alec**
    - Security update is out (3.3.0-13)
        - Still need to release latest 3.2.x package
    - Adding PHP8.1 support to stable-3_3_0
    - Foreign keys added to `main` branch DBs (thanks Laravel); will finally start documenting database for publication with SchemaSpy
    - Open reviews! Talk to us!
- **AJ**
    - Preparing hiring for our EU project
    - Doing lot's of archive imports, including to OMP where we seem to have some import issues btw.
    - Upgrades to our own paymentMethodPlugin
- **Ronald**
    - vacation
- **Sonya**
    - upgraded to address security updates
    - getting back into UofA work following leave
    - subgroup to work on community testing and documentation with Alec, Andrew G, Jason N, and Erik H.

- **Davin**
    - JATS XML Production
        - Meeting with [Métopes](http://www.metopes.fr/)
        - Internal work on our JATS conversion (Texture JATS4M compatible/inspired)
    - Marc: Need JATS working group? Several groups are interested.
        - Alec: PKP directors need to show leadership (resourcing) before a working group could do much. (to solve editor issue)
        - Davin: What about standardizing a format, irrespective of editor? (e.g. JATS4M)
            - Prerequisite: Home for JATS. https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/6825
                - Scheduled for 3.5
            - PKP happy to participate, but OJS is fairly agnostic. Groups with specific requirements need to advocate for shared format.
            - Suggest roping anyone interested into XML channel in Mattermost.
- **Name**
    - Comments


### Highlight of the month: ###

- None


Agenda
------

- Discuss possible future sprint forms (continue and close)
    - Alec to take to Directors to see when next sprint might be
    - Possible role for community librarian
- Updates:
    - Workgroup updates:
        - Testing Workgroup
            - Community (sonya)
                - What is our community testing process, who is included, how do we recruit?
                - Meeting on Friday
                - Shared document [link not included in notes]
            - Specific optimization (Antti-Jussi)
                - Large tables of contents
                - Need to create/identify test data
                - Next steps: posting in Mattermost
        - Containers workgroup
            - Andrew, Marc, others working with Docker toolset
            - Rethinking existing images to permit various container systems; also other PKP applications
            - Join #containers channel in Mattermost
        - Analytics workgroup
            - Lead by Marc and Pierre
            - Suggestion: Remove WG from the list until Marc and Pierre can work together.
    - Community issues / feature requests
- PKP's OxS information: 
    - See a proposal and ideas in [former minutes](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/267da79ea676e8cdd3305688b3b0421604b9f5d0/meeting-minutes/2022-05-19.md). Questions raised are:
        - How to communicate supported versions? 
        - How to explain OxS apps life cycle?
        - How to communicate PKP apps requirements?
        - New website will launch soon -- we can work on this afterwards, but trying not to complicate content process yet!
- Discussion: Technical Committee and the Member's committee
    - Do we need a plan of work for the technical committee?
- Next meeting
    - Spammers and spam accounts
    - Report back form directors on sprints
    - DIG update? Future work?


Notes
-----


Old Business
------------

- What's the current state of XML (JATS) creation and usage in OJS ecosystem
- Proposals to facilitate support work: Knowledge base tool


Question of the Month
---------------------
### Determined in advance for open discussion

- TBD

Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific
