# 18 August 2022

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Marc, Alex, Rick, Alec, Davin, Pierre, Dulip, Ronald
-   Regrets: Sonya, Antti-Jussi


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?
- **Marc**
    - [Preliminary report about the FR channel](https://hackmd.io/vYL-dJ1DR82vYbK0cTyFaQ?view)
    - Vacations

- **Alex**
    - Improvements to the Hypothesis plugin (with Lepidus). Soon to be submitted for Alec's review.
    - Ongoing work with Dataverse plugin for OPS (with Lepidus). New pre-MVP version up for testing.
    - ORCID Working Group.

- **Rick**
    - OJS database charset/engine cleanup
        -Motivation: When updating from 3.1 to 3.3 we noticed some errors related to newly imposed foreign key constraints and realized that we hadn't paid close enough attention to our mysql defaults leading to mixed database engine statements, character sets and collations for tables created during the upgrade and in the past.
        -Method: To solve this, we changed database default character set and collation, updated config.inc.php to match. Next we ran a script to dump each database and parsed the file to normalize any divergent database engine/collation/charset settings.
        -Challenges: When the collation was changed, we ended up with bad data in the submission search index, so a further find/replace of the database dump file removed insert statements for submission_search_keyword_list. Then we imported the new database and rebuilt the search index.

- **Dulip**
  -   Hosting and development
       - OJS 3.3 compatibility PHP 8  compatibility/ refinements for own and third-party plugins:       - [Rosetta LTA](https://github.com/withanage/rosetta) , [authorRequirements](https://github.com/ewhanson/authorRequirements/pulls), funding, tibTheme 
      - Performance measuring for  Crossref Funding API which has around 31k entries , in certain time intervals unusable 
    - Accesibility/Usability survery  for a new theme design for TIB Open Publishing
  - Conceptualization/interface definition/JATS mapping for integrating [Open-Research-Knowledge-Graph](https://orkg.org/review/R172166) into OJS using JATS-XML (long-term )      
  - Projects 
    - CRAFT OA - Developer search
    - XML conversion Project  application 
 - **Alec**
     - Renamed/modified every PHP file :( to add namespaces and PSR-based autoloading (#6091)
     - In case you're interested: FidusWriter demo (link not included)
- **Davin**
    - JATS - Compare JATS used in OJS stack (core, plugins)
- **Ronald**
    - OMP/OJS Upgrades 3.1 to 3.3
    - docx -> Jats/Bits -> HTML/PDF conversion with Pandoc, Saxon and PrintCSS)
    - Plugin development 
- **Name**
    - Name - Summary of items FYI


### Highlight of the month: ###

- None


Agenda
------

- Review progress on feature request and contributor guide changes
    - **Any feedback about the [contributor guide](https://docs.pkp.sfu.ca/dev/contributors)?**
    - **Any comment about "[How to propose and discuss feature requests](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17DQMJ9l12inTUZpCe8p9vYyKwj8WaUfxIXbHltx3fKQ/edit#)""**
    - **Anyone has experience with voting, posting, etc?**
        - [Preliminary report about the FR channel](https://hackmd.io/vYL-dJ1DR82vYbK0cTyFaQ?view). Summary of the report:
            - FR need to be created since the begining thinking in the PKP’s community “common benefit” instead of looking for solutions for individual issues.
            - The space need to be taken as a serious act of participation so members need to deliver a good description of the idea that need to be implemented. Community members need to answer properly the template delivered, include mockups and explain in detail why they think this is good for the community.            
            - FR channel could not be understood as a “dummping ground” for gitHub issues. If we create this new space for the community. The space need to be organised, with clear and structured requests, etc.
            - FR process need to be better explained to answer questions like:
                - When will the FR be selected? Once a year?
                - Who will decide what FR will be implemented?
                - Which will be the criteria? Ie: 1. Collective petitions first? 2. More votes? 3. Easier to implement?
                - How many of them could people expect to be implemented yearly?
        - Concerns: If PKP is using this forum as a way of cleaning the issue list, but not stewarding the feature requests, we just move the dumping ground elsewhere.
        - PKP support crew doesn't have the context to manage this part of the forum.
        - Need tools for adding order to chaos: assigned resources for curation, templates [there is one], tags/labels, etc.
        - Too many old issues; they do not follow any structure
            - Option: could delete or move them (recommended) 
            - Option: let votes determine what needs more work
        - It's possible to have specific tags in specific forums.
        - Suggestion: identify a resource, just start, see how the community responds. There is a lot of positive energy.
        - Sense of worry about the pace of changes -- it's happening quickly, hard to keep up.
            - Technical changes: these will be well documented with new releases and targeted documents
            - Structural changes, e.g. direction to forum rather than github issues: If you miss e.g. the blog post, we (PKP; tech committee; community) will try to redirect in a friendly way with reference to the documentation.
    - **Discussion**
        - Need to establish the relationship between Github discussions (typically tech heavy) and feature requests (typically functionality related).
        - Example of community stewardship of proposals in PHP: https://wiki.php.net/rfc/callable-types
        - Fair and positive to establish a good baseline for the work required in proposing a change.
        - Rationalizing the design before beginning coding is good.
        - Expressing an idea is not enough; need to do the work, considering the community that's in front of you.
    - **TAKE-AWAYS**:
        - Need a defined resource to take care of stewardship of this part of the forum.
        - Need a good, clear, single point of entry for community members to find where to start participating.

Notes
-----


Old Business
------------
- Discuss possible future sprint forms
    - How to hold them "responsibly"? (climate change, covid, diversity, remote participation...)
- Dev team request feedback about:
    - **[Improved hook conventions](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/discussions/8089):** If you've struggled with hooks, please add your input! PKP is especially interested in any ideas/experiences you might've had with ways to add autocompletion and documentation.
        - Merged: Hook class convention changes
        - To be decided: Documentation (codeblocks; class-based; etc)
    - **[Adoption of Eloquent models](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/discussions/8103)** for relationship tables. This might set the stage for broader adoption of Eloquent. 
    - **[Ideas about how to keep the translations updated across versions](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/discussions/8038)** (e.g. LTS and development)
- Proposals to facilitate support work:
    - Knowledge base tool
- To be recalled in September:
    - How to communicate supported versions? (OxS apps life cycle)
        - See Examples in [former minutes](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/267da79ea676e8cdd3305688b3b0421604b9f5d0/meeting-minutes/2022-05-19.md).
        - Define Requirements (visual, automatic, precise, ???).
    - How to communicate PKP apps requirements?
        - See a proposal and ideas in [former minutes](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/267da79ea676e8cdd3305688b3b0421604b9f5d0/meeting-minutes/2022-05-19.md)
- Analytics workgroup


Question of the Month
---------------------
### Determined in advance for open discussion

- Discuss possible future sprint forms

Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific

