# 15 September 2022

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Alex, Sonya, Alex, Davin, Dulip, Rick, Ronald, Antti-Jussi, Pierre
-   Regrets: Marc
-   Chair: Alec

Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?
- **Alec**
    - OJS/OMP/OPS 3.3.0-12 to be released this week - waiting on minor issue resolution from Antti-Jussi (https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/6875)
        - Question: PHP8.1 support and when? Lots of items in the code base will need work - wondering about when people plan to upgrade to 8.1 to help prioritize this work.
    - SWORD work: "streamlined" workflow for authors from OPS into OJS
    - Performance testing for upgrades (SciELO dataset)
- **Alex**
    - Hypothesis plugin enhancements (with Lepidus' support)
    - Plaudit plugin (for endorsements) now available at the plugin gallery (with Lepidus' support)
    - ongoing work with Dataverse plugin (with Lepidus' support)
- **Sonya** 
    - community development activities for Canadian library publishers (almost all use OJS). Working with Coalition Publica on establishing library presence as they are working through renewal on POA. Kicking of Canadian community development working group with LPC
- **Dulip**
    -  Texture [development](https://github.com/pkp/texture/milestone/1) 
- **Davin**
    - JATS generation from Erudit in-house XML model (EruditArticle)

### Highlight of the month: ###

- None


Agenda
------

- Discuss possible future sprint forms
    - How to hold them "responsibly"? (climate change, covid, diversity, remote participation...)
    - Does anyone know of an organizational/institutional commitment?
    - Successful examples of remote sprints/hybrid events?
    - Ways to make sure the useful impact of travel is maximized?
    - Sonya is aware of a community -- Library Publishing Forum Coalition & others
    - Alec is also aware of a community -- will find details
    - Equity: Scholarships or funding - tiered funding available for participants
    - aligning with other events so people who are already attending can participate easily. Saves $$ and carbon
    - local hubs - regional participation and regional meetings. Difficult for organizers - need a local contact or host
    - online participation needs to be dedicated / exclusive / facilitated
    - Parallel sprints in different regions - connected remotely but with in-person work happening regionally (maybe one facilitator in each location?)
    - General consensus that this is worth exploring for all reason listed above, trying hybrid meetings is worth it (or dedicated virtual meetings in some form), regional meetings proposed too
- Dev team request feedback about:
    - **[Improved hook conventions](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/discussions/8089):** If you've struggled with hooks, please add your input! PKP is especially interested in any ideas/experiences you might've had with ways to add autocompletion and documentation.
        - Merged: Hook class convention changes
        - To be decided: Documentation (codeblocks; class-based; etc)
    - **[Adoption of Eloquent models](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/discussions/8103)** for relationship tables. This might set the stage for broader adoption of Eloquent. 
    - **[Ideas about how to keep the translations updated across versions](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/discussions/8038)** (e.g. LTS and development)
    - All: review and provide feedback for any of the issues above via discussions
    - All these are examples of github discussions as a means for resolving issues and getting feedback and conversation from community

- Nate has been triaging issues and cleaning up / closing old issues that have been resolved or no longer relevant
- Community issues / feature requests - need some help with way that issues are described, voted on, etc. Suggestion that we maybe provide a virtual event to answer questions and explain how this works? Some kind of community call or other open event. Quarterly update could be an opportunity for this to happen. Alec to discuss with Dev leads.



Notes
-----


Old Business
------------

- Proposals to facilitate support work:
    - Knowledge base tool
- To be recalled in September:
    - How to communicate supported versions? (OxS apps life cycle). Waiting on new website design.
        - See Examples in [former minutes](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/267da79ea676e8cdd3305688b3b0421604b9f5d0/meeting-minutes/2022-05-19.md).
        - Define Requirements (visual, automatic, precise, ???).
    - How to communicate PKP apps requirements?
        - See a proposal and ideas in [former minutes](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/267da79ea676e8cdd3305688b3b0421604b9f5d0/meeting-minutes/2022-05-19.md)
- Analytics workgroup


Question of the Month
---------------------
### Determined in advance for open discussion

- Discuss possible future sprint forms tabled for October.

Other topics
------------

- What's the current state of XML (JATS) creation and usage in OJS ecosystem?

Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific
