# 19 May 2022

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Marc, Alec, Clinton, Alex, Antti-Jussi, Rick
-   Regrets: Sonya, Davin and Piere 


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?
- **Marc**
    - Docker4ojs refactoring. RFC closed. Writing summary.
    - TC Communications with N.
    - Monitoring tools (netdata) for the service.
    - Forum support.
- **Alex**
    - Progress on Dataverse plugin with Lepidus (eScire has offered to help).
    - OJS migration pilot project with two SciELO Brazil journals.
    - Upgrading SciELO Chile OJS from 2 to 3.
- **Alec** - Summary of items FYI
    - Presentation on plugin testing (PKP Youtube)
    - Anyone know anything about FOSS Cogn*s alternatives? Please let me know!
- **AJ** 
    - Sprint preparations
    - Upgrade preparations to 3.3 
- **Name** - Summary of items FYI

### Highlight of the month: ###
None


Agenda
------
- PKP Operations Director
        - Announced shortly.
- Polling/feature request additions to PKP support forum (continuation)
    - Alec brief presentation about the "github projects" (Workflow, inputs, decisions...?)
        - Video recorded -- please contact Alec for details.
    	- PKP Dev Team - How do we map and work on competing and conflicting goals?
	    - New Dev Team structure
			 - Infrastructure - Alec
			 - Workflow - Nate
			 - Scholarly Standards - Bozana
		- Public Roadmap competes with categorization and status in GitHub
		- Addtional partner/project prioritization spreadsheets exist
		- New GitHub projects release
			- New support for Projects at the Organization level, covering multiple repositories
			- We can now consider enabling issues and milestones on repositories outside of pkp-lib, but still have a cohesive view. Plugin maintainers are encouraged to use milestones and issues in plugin repos.
			- Categorization: Backlog, TODO, Under Research, Under Development, Done
			- Custom fields allow for arbitrary controlled vocabularies, which we're using to denote priorization from multiple projects/partners
			- Issues will list the linked projects
			- Experimenting with a Project as a work-in-progress task list
			- This will be quite a long list of Projects in the end
			- The issue list will require a higher bar to remain open, refer individual requests to the Forum tool for community consensus.
				- We are still negotiating the tension of redirecting folks to the forum.
				- We need to articulate the requirements for issue filing
				- We need to encourge forum discussion
			- How might we use this in the Tech Committee, and in the release development cycle?
			- Everything will be as public as possible; Personal WIP tasks lists may remain private.
			- We would like to encourage partners to mangage their own projects, rather than force everything into our management
			- The management of the Kanban board will be by the individuals assigned to the issue.
				- We would like for contributors to feel like they have ownership, but ensuring that releases are relatively controlled.
			- Note that this further commits us to GitHub as a provider.
		- Forum voting
			- Plugin being tested to allow for a limited number of votes on topics.
 			- If you run out of votes, you need to remove a vote to vote elsewhere.
			    - Hopefully we can mark ideas "accepted" and return votes to the pool.
			- [Discourse-docs](https://meta.discourse.org/docs) plugin offers categorization and tags. Could be combined with voting.
			- Hoping to make the forum more interactive and useful, moving from a "support forum" to a tool that demands more implication for community fellows.
			- Still important that we accept and welcome attempts to participate on GitHub, though.
- TC communications?
    - Mattermost for communications and small talk.
    - Mail list for deeper talks.
- TC page.
    - Need data of all TC members. Alec has a xls with this. Marc will complile it or ask by mail to send it to Nathalie.
- How to communicate supported versions? (life cycle)
    - Set aside for a couple of months while website rewrite is underway
- How to communicate PKP apps requirements?
    - Set aside for a couple of months while website rewrite is underway


Old Business
------------

- Proposals to facilitate support work:
    - Knowledge base tool

- To be recalled in September:
    - How to communicate supported versions? (OxS apps life cycle)
        - Examples:
            - PHP: https://www.php.net/supported-versions.php
            - Ubuntu: https://ubuntu.com/about/release-cycle
            - Debian: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Debian_version_history
            - NodeJS: https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/
            - Oxygen: https://www.oxygenxml.com/eol.html
            - Oracle: https://itechbrand.com/oracle-12c-end-of-life/
            - redHat: https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/errata
            - Microsoft: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/mem/configmgr/core/servers/manage/current-branch-versions-supported
            - End of Life: https://endoflife.date/blender
            - Versio: https://www.versio.io/product-release-end-of-life-eol-Red%20Hat%20Enterprise%20Linux-Red%20Hat.html

        - Requirements:
            - visual.
            - automatic.
            - precise.
            - ???

    - How to communicate PKP apps requirements?
        - Proposal:
            - Table of php versions and plugins?
                | OJS     | PHP | plugins |
                | ------- | --- | ------- |
                | 2.x     | 5.6 | ??      |
                | 3.1     | 7.3 | ??      |
                | 3.2     | 7.4 | ??      |
                | 3.3     | 8.0 | ??      |

- Analytics workgroup?
    - No news, yet.

Question of the Month
---------------------
### Determined in advance for open discussion

Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

July 21, 2022 9:00am Pacific time
