# 17 November 2022

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Marc, Antti-Jussi, Alec, Rick, Pierre, Sonya, Davin, Ronald
- Regrets: Alex, Dulip.

Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **AJ**
    - OMP imports
    - Own Custom Locale plugin (not allowing journals to edit themselves)
        - Common request: editors want to rename/disable edit decisions. Major/minor revisions, etc.
        - PKP has had requests for both reviewer and editor decision customization; reviewers would be easier (no workflow implications, just presented to editor for consideration) but editor decisions would be tough as they affect statistics etc.
        - A possible solution:
            - Allow customization of reviewer decisions
            - Make sure set of editor decisions is comprehensive
            - Allow editor decisions to be renamed and disabled
    - Twitter bot for tweeting about new issues in Journal.fi (in production next week)
    - OPS work
- **Alec**
    - Past security issue
        - Released 3.2.0 and 3.2.1 builds of OJS (this was time consuming)
- **Sonya**
    - Testing team activities
    - Chairing LPC Canadian Community Development Working Group
    - Lots of not-OJS work at UofA
    - UofA team struggling with email going to spam folders... any ideas?
- **Marc**
    - DIG Spanish team 
    - New PKP PN nodes
- **Davin**
    - Still working on JATS format conversion (from internal XML)
    - Test Production ready file transmission via OAI and JATS (with Pierre)
- **Ronald**
    - XML-Workflow: Jats to HTML conversion (via SaxonHE), HTML to PDF conversion via PrintCSS (paged.js, weasyprint)
- **Rick**
    -  DB updates to continue fixing our orphan locale problem
- **Pierre**
    - Testing OJS and Érudit "gateway"
    - Discussing with journals the challenges of new Fonds de recherche du Québec Open Access policy incorporating some Plan S requirements.
    - Planning migration to 3.3.0.13

### Highlight of the month: ###

- None


Agenda
------

- Monographic on "Releases&Support": 
  The session will focus on trying to provide recommendations to PKP on the release process and supported versions.   Here are some questions that we would like to answer or reflect on:
  - How the package building process works? Could it be improved? (See mattermost thread)
      - Alec, Davin and Marc will meet to think a little about options.
  - Which versions should PKP to support? (see beacon data)
      - See below.
  - How should it be communicated to the community?
      - See below.
  - Plugins: plugin devs know of a release coming when? (newbie question... for testing and ajustments)
  - Discussion
      - For those using 3.2 or older, what support do you need from us (both to upgrade and to keep serving users)?
          - AJ: No support expected :)
              - Do users of 3.1.x etc. know they are using unsupported versions? Should we e.g. turn off support for some things?
          - Ronald
              - Resources to do the upgrades are likely main issue.
              - Out of >40 installations, many are 3.1.
          - Marc
              - Also no expectations.
      - Possible PKP actions
          - Could add "this is an unsafe version" warning (but only forward-looking)
          - Could remove old plugin gallery compatibility statements/plugins
          - Could focus on 3.2 deprecation communciation coming up on 3.4 release
              - Would need to include journal managers, not just institutions. There may be no technical resource.
              - Maybe include options for solutions -- e.g. PKP hosting
          - Possible new FAQ (Marc) for the communnication plan and to help in forum:
            - Why PKP offers free support and why is limited on time?
            - What versions are supported?
            - What is a "frozen" version and why it happens?
            - When we stop releasing "build" versions?
            - LTS will be supported for 3 or 5 years?
            - How often is code released?
            - How PKP code is distributed?
      - Pierre: Be careful with the communication to avoid a sensation of "abandoning" people.
      - Alec: Not leaving anybody. End of Life practice is extended. Soft will be avaliable but support need to be limited according to resources.




Notes
-----


Old Business
------------

- Report back form directors on sprints
- What's the current state of XML (JATS) creation and usage in OJS ecosystem
- Sprints: Report back form directors on sprints
- Spam: Spammers and spam accounts?
- Documentation: Help DIG team with new/existing documentation?
- Community: Need to recover community committee?
- Proposals to facilitate support work: Knowledge base tool


Question of the Month
---------------------
### Determined in advance for open discussion

- TBD

Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific
