# 17 March 2022

In Attendance
-------------

-   Present: Alec, Marc, Clinton, Dulip, Sonya, Pierre, Davin
-   Regrets: Alex, Nathalie, Antti-Jussi

Quick Updates
-------------
### What have you been working on lately?
- **Clinton** - Pitt
    - wrapping up plugin upgrades to 3.3; preparing to package OJS 3.3 for Pitt use.
    - nominating Rick Hoover to the Technical Committee (he's been doing the plugin upgrade work)
        - Has been working on plugin updates
        - Would like to invite him starting next month's meeting
    - Tyler Lendon (ULS IT Resident) is working on the "Try Me" issues from GitHub
    - Looking for solutions to RHEL support for PHP8, if that is to be the new baseline for OJS 3.4.  Remi might be the only option currently, but RHEL8 should have a PHP8 release "in the coming months".
- **Alex** - (absent)
    - PREreview plugin released for OPS! https://github.com/PREreview/api / https://github.com/PREreview/PREreviewDOIPlugin
    - Upgrading SciELO OJS/OPS to 3.3.0-10.
    - Upgrading SciELO Chile OJS from 2.x to 3.x (last one in 2.x!)
    - Meetings with Alec & Antti-Jussi abou OPS; Meetings with Alec & candidate SciELO journals for migrate pilot project.
- **Alec**
    - OJS/OMP/OPS 3.3.0-10 released (reminder: allowed_hosts setting)
        - See: https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/7649
    - SWORDv3 exploration and SWORDv2 auto-discovery mechanism
    - Lucene plugin updated to support stable-3_3_0
        - Let Alec know if you are interested and able to test!
- **Marc** - UAB
    - Docker things:
        - Images for 3.3.0-9, 3.3.0-10
        - Refactoring bulding script.
        - Testing gitLab CI/CD tools.
    - GA recommendation with Davin & Pierre.
    - Testing upgrades from 3.2.1-4 to 3.3.0-10.
- **Dulip**
    - Grant application writing
- **Sonya**
    - Library Publishing Forum has released schedule
        - Pre-conference, Wednesday and Thursday week of May 15
        - Recommended: Keynote on multilingualism in publishing
        - Recommended: Session on traditional knowledge labels; indigenous knowledge production; knowledge and copyright vs. community ownership
- **Davin**
    - GA recommendation with Marc & Pierre.




Old Business
------------
- February meeting notes here: https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2022-02-17.md
- Upgrade blog post went out: https://pkp.sfu.ca/2022/02/23/its-time-to-upgrade-ojs/
- Analytics alternatives working group (Marc, Davin, Pierre) updates?
    - Began with GDPR recommendations generally, but pivoted to describing challenges and alternatives to Google Analtyics
    - (Alec shares: OJStat: https://forum.pkp.sfu.ca/t/ojstat-formerly-easystat-is-ready/72384)
    - Have [created draft document regarding alternatives]( https://hackmd.io/dYPWc530R82P_vBhOw6Ttw)
    - Proposal to use this document as a blog post.  Will forward to Natalie for editing and posting next week.
    - Note that Plausible has no plugin for OJS, but Matomo does.  Either can be implemented directly via the Custom Header plugin.
        - Do we want to maintain specific plugins (e.g. Matomo) when documentation-based options are available (e.g. Custom Header Plugin)?
            - Marc: If one tool (e.g. Google Analytics) has a plugin, the others should probably match the same level.
            - Clinton: Alternately, we could EOL Matomo and Google Analytics and encourage Custom Header Plugin approach.
            - Davin: Would EOLing an active plugin cause a regression for users? (We could add a deprecation warning rather than removing a plugin wholesale.)
            - There could be good technical reasons for maintaining these as plugins. Do they enrich the access data with article metadata?
            - We could add a docs hub document to present all stats solutions regardless of whether they use specific plugins or other mechanisms.
        - If we do, does this mean we need to write a plugin for Plausible?
            - Maybe, if it can offer a richer integration. Consider for later.
    - Next steps:
        - Everyone to review and feedback of the Technical Committee (before Wednesday, March 23)
        - Subcommittee to test options
        - HOWTO documentation and list of stats options for contribution to the docs hub
            - then update blog post with link to doc



Standing items
---------------------
- Testing working group update: last meeting notes are here https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/main/testing-committee/meeting-minutes/2022-03-03.md
    - Two items planned for next meeting (7 April): testing on Lucene via Cypress, and a presentation on "containerization" (Docker/Kubernetes).
        - Sidebar: Docker may not be universal solution; e.g. podman
    - Date/time: April 7, 8:00am Pacific
    - Dulip to send invite to dev and dev-partners channels

Other topics
------------
New chair in April (pending Advisory Committee approval at March 29 meeting)
 - Marc has agreed to take on chair for this next period!
 - Thanks to Sonya! (Thanks to Clinton too!)

Operations Director Search:
- Two current candidates
- Expected to wrap up soon

Mattermost to replace Slack
 - Coming soon!
 - Hosting an experimental instance for several months, have been testing successfully.
 - Planning to migrate active channels from Slack to Mattermost, then post an invite to move from Slack to Mattermost.

Marc's support proposals
 - Polling/feature request additions to PKP support forum
 - Knowledge base tool
 - Both tabled for next month.

PKP sprint in Helsinki: June 15-16
- Mid-April go/no-go decision
- Website available (formally launched?)

PKP sprint in Colombia: June 29-July 1
- Confirmed to go ahead
- Website to be launched shortly
- Alec will reach out to both sprint groups to suggest TC participation.



Next Meeting
------------
TBD: Marc's support proposals
 - Polling/feature request additions to PKP support forum
 - Knowledge base tool

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific
