# 19 January 2023

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Alex, Marc, Alec, Davin, Ronald, Rick, Sonya.
- Regrets: Dulip

[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes)


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?


- **Alec**
    - Locale summiting (to permit forward- and back-porting of translations) -- [tools repo](https://github.com/asmecher/summit-tools)
        - Will most likely be merging locales and standardizing codes with 3.4.0 (e.g. `es_ES`/`es_MX`/`es_AR` become `es`)
        - Accepting translations through means other than Weblate may become more difficult
        - Probably will entrench a need for a tech resource for translation management :(
        - Marc's group works with an external tool -- should be able to accommodate. To be discussed e.g. on Mattermost.
    - SciELO dataset upgrade testing (pre-3.4.0)
        - So far very promising!
        - Pre-flight check has already relieved a lot of frustrating reload/retry cycles.
        - Alec has a "declawing" script 
- **Alex**
    - Dataverse plugin (MVP) released for OPS. Up and running on SciELO Preprints. Fine-tuning for upcoming versions.
    - (very) Early tests with Metabase (editorial statistics for OJS).
    - Planning PKP Sprint in Brazil (Campinas) in May. 
- **AJ**
    - Vacation
    - An old article repository called Elektra was closed down in Finland, so have been busy with importing journals from their platform to Journal.fi (we reached 140 journals)
    - Developing some simple tools for disabling inactive and/or mail bouncing user accounts (a script for reading the bounce messages from a mailbox and a script for mass disabling and setting a disabled message for the user)
- **Marc**
    - Working on "sushiReport miniHarvester" (name TBD): A small harvester that collects COUNTER statistics from multiple OJS (sushi-lite plugin required) and returns data in CSV format.
        - https://github.com/marcbria/sushiReport
    - pkpContainers: With Andrew Gearhart we are working in the docker-ojs refactor to make the containers building more universal/standard and more tested. Documentation to define the proposal [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AoGn1K4ep4vf7ylIS7wU2ybCLHdJNpkDRND7OhfRG-I/edit?usp=sharing) will be opened to the community next week.
    - Planning new service migration (going back to our institution). Change will include upgrade to OJS 3.3 (LTS).
- **Ronald**
    - Data privacy conracts
    - Aquisition of new journals
    - Developing tools to aquire journal stats from different servers/installations

### Highlight of the month: ###

- Does anyone have opinions/institutional policies on outsourcing and procurement? For example, if considering a service launch that will require labour and it may be sourced from a lower income country?
    - Motivating horror story: [ChatGPT in Kenya](https://time.com/6247678/openai-chatgpt-kenya-workers/)
        - Outsourced via 3rd party
        - Work (subject matter) was horrific
        - Work conditions were exploitative
    - Discussion
        - Sonya: Lots of university policies that dictate who we can/can't partner with. Designed at institutional level -- we lack control. Depending on the cost of the contract, may require an RFP process. Not-for-profits are generally exempt (e.g. Internet Archive)
        - Marc: Why is labour inexpensive in some places? Need to consider international exploitation/colonialism. Consider it unethical to look for cheaper labour. It's possible that SFU may prevent this kind of work.
        - Alec: Equity involves relative cost of living. For example, PKP struggles to hire American talent because of exchange rate; medical benefits.
        - Sonya: Need to understand the organization you're working with as an intermediary. Need to consider upsides of global procurement.
    - Antti-Jussi: Agree that cost of living is key issue. Hate the idea of "taking advantage" of lower cost country but that need not be what we are proposing.
    - Alec: Suggest we not try to develop a policy -- others have more experience. But we can come up with a list of guidelines/questions we would like addressed if PKP pursues this.
    - Antti-Jussi: What about multilingual content? Service provider from abroad. Never quite know what is coming :)
    - Issues to bring back to directors:
        - Institutional RFP requirements for contracts -- what does SFU require?
        - Equity and pay scale ethics:
            - General discomfort with pure pursuit of "cheap labour"
            - Mitigating factors: Shared benefit; good awareness of intermediaries (if used); further development of existing partnerships
        - What is the scope of service? e.g. multilingual?
    - Deadline set: 1 week from now, Alec will deliver this and any additional feedback (e.g. example policies) to the directors.
        

Agenda
------

- Ethics: Policy or ideas about outsourcing? (Context: potentially developing services within PKP)
  - (notes above)
- Workgroups: Review how the TC working groups are doing (assess whether changes need to be made, allocate more resources...).
    - Current TC working groups
        - Testing working group
            - A-J: Possibly will be more active around 3.4 release. Think it's needed.
        - Release documentation working group
            - Alec: Does good work, but moving too slowly to address 3.4 release. Would like it to continue.
        - PKP Containers
            - Andrew and Marc. Working really well.
        - Lucene
            - Dulip. Not 100% aligned with TC, not sure what's happening.
            - Met in November (ish). Good attendance. But Dulip has been busy.
            - Nothing else scheduled (we think)
        - Statistics
            - Pierre & Marc. Currently on hold.
            - Was looking at GA alternatives (Piwik/Matomo, etc).
    - Alec's proposal: Keep TC meetings, keep individual group meetings, lose testing group monthly meetings.



Notes
-----


Old Business
------------

- JATS: What's the current state of XML (JATS) creation and usage in OJS ecosystem
    - PKP in contact with Coko (Libero) and Fiduswriter. Trying to investigate multiple options simultaneously. More welcome.
    - Ronald: Project plan will be submitted beginning of February. Single-source XML publishing in OJS. Summary can be provided to PKP when it's available in English.
    - Davin: Also interested in developing/promoting a JATS dialect. JATS4M was previous work on this e.g. with Texture.
    - XML remains a "holy grail" -- need to make inroads in environments where there is a well-understood need and workflow. (Many editors probably don't understand the potential cost/benefit.)
- Sprints: Report back from directors on sprints
- Documentation: Help DIG team with new/existing documentation/tools?
    - Q: Is the help they need about the documentation contents, or about the toolset (docs hub rebuild)
    - A: Marc: It's about content.
    - Alec: About tools more than content: PKP needs a dev/ops person e.g. to help with docs hub rebuild, search tools, etc. May also be able to help on content.
    - Ronald: About supporting the team with technical parts of documentation: Could the documentation team not post questions e.g. in Technical Committee Mattermost channel?
        - Seems good to the TC.
- Documentation: Credit for document authors.
    - Marc and Alejandra did a proposal. Will be sent to TC.
- Community: Need to recover community committee?
- Support: Proposals to facilitate support work: Knowledge base tool?


Question of the Month
---------------------
Does anyone have opinions/institutional policies on outsourcing and procurement? For example, if considering a service launch that will require labour and it may be sourced from a lower income country?
- (notes above)

Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific
