# 17 August 2023 

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Alex, Marc, Alec, Antti-Jussi
- Regrets: Beau, Ronald

Meeting at: [8 PDT](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20230817T150000&p1=tz_pt&p2=256&p3=80&p4=3705&p5=418&p6=tz_adt&p7=31&p8=37&p9=101)
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes)


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Dulip**
    - Conference-Plugin
    - jatsTemplate Plugin (Rewriting)
    - publicationValidatorPlugin for 3.3: WIP
    - Portico Troubleshooting:  WIP
    - ithenticate troubleshooting : WIP
    - PKP-Sprint organization
- **Alex**
    - Dataverse plugin improvements (with Lepidus)
    - Author version plugin improvements, for OPS (with Lepidus)
    - Plaudit plugin improvements, for OPS (with Lepidus)
- **Alec**
    - OJS/OMP/OPS 3.4.0-0 and -1 released; -2 due probably tomorrow (Friday)
    - Infrastructure for invitations (GDPR etc) nearly ready for merge
        - Question: What do we do with older data (pre-invitations)?
        - Tension between scholarly record (need to maintain) and GDPR rights (to be forgotten etc)
    - Dev leads workshop Monday -- 9:00am Pacific time. Link to come!
- **AJ**
    - CRAFT-OA work (multilingualism features & metadata issues).
    - Updated OpenAIRE plugin for 3.4
    - Vacation
- **Marc**
    - Vacation
- **Joey**
    - Podcast/RSS import into OJS
    - Audio player plugin
    - Developing deck.gl / OpenLayers map (with OJS API)


Agenda
------

Testing workgroup:
- If we hosted a 1.5 hour sprint semi-regularly, would it be a way to replace the testing committee?
    - Possible tasks: optimization work; optimization methodology; testing; testing documentation
    - Concern: What if you're not as quick on your toes in technical contributions, or don't work effectively coding under scrutiny? Is it enough time?
    - Suggestion: use the first meeting to brainstorm types of work, then perhaps the second to try it out.
    - Suggestion: Consider longer sprints (3 hours?) if the frequently is lower.
    - Suggestion: What about bringing in an expert?
    - Proposal: Alec to suggest a kick-off meeting
        - Who is invited and how can we communicate with them?
        - Tech committee; dev team; hosting team. (Community?)
        - Alec to find a venue (maybe a Mattermost channel)

About Videoconference

- TC experimented with Big Blue Button (thanks Dulip / TIB) for this call. It seemed to work very well. TC will continue using this.

> Recommendations for PKP when adopting new software. 

PKP's request on its draft criteria for choosing software for internal and/or community use, together with the change of zoom usage policies opens a debate in which the TC can and should contribute.

The session will start by (1) making a decision on the VC tool to be used by the TC in future meetings and then (2) review the draft written by PKP and provide our feedback and recommendations.
- Question: Who are the users we're talking about? 3rd party developers? Users of PKP software? PKP staff?
    - Possible answer: It's around selection of software that PKP makes in forming its community environment.
    - Issue/opportunity: There are various circles of autonomy.
- Question: What are the packages we're using that are not FOSS?
        - Zoom; Figma; Google Docs; Notion; etc. These are hard to replace.
        - For each, what are the questions?
            - For example, do we accumulate locked-in content with continued use?
- Question: Where do we focus our effort?
    - Giving our approval to the list of considerations?
    - Identifying existing selections that might not meet the list, and identifying replacements?
- Good FOSS citizenship on PKP's part does not just involve using the software!

- Feedback from the TC:
    - FOSS / licensing is a primary concern of the TC.
    - Prioritization of elements in the guidelines may not be sufficiently clear. "If everything is important, nothing is important."
        - A procurement process (to implement the guidelines) might help.
    - There is interest in an inventory of tools that are already in use.
    - PKP's good FOSS citizenship is more than just using the software. We are frequently free riders.
- Marc to write a brief intro and pass it to the group on Mattermost.
- Then, Alec to pass feedback to directors.


Old Business
------------

- **About the feature request forum:** A proposal for improvement for the community.
- **What do we want to do from the TC and how will we do it?**: Discussion on the choice of TC themes and the dynamics of operation.
- **Community committee:** Ideas and proposals to help PKP to recover it. List of people/organizations that could be interested.


Question of the Month
---------------------

TBD


Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific
