# 19 October 2023 

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Marc, Alec, Antti-Jussi, Rick, Davin
- Regrets: Beau

Meeting at: [8 PDT](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20231019T150000&p1=tz_pt&p2=256&p3=80&p4=3705&p5=418&p6=tz_adt&p7=31&p8=37&p9=101)
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes)


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?
- **Marc**
    - Quit smoking
    - Catching up with different WPs of the CRAFT-OA project.
    - CT chair tasks (ordering information for the CT and Advisory)
    - Rebuilding the server infrastructure.
- **AJ**
    - latin1->utf8mb4 conversion (problems with indexes)
    - testing a metrics zipping script I wrote
    - CRAFT-OA work
    - Did a FitSM training, was very interesting
- **Davin**
    - OpenAlex: versioning dataset and release with a low tech overhead for researchers
    - COUNTER R5 release (about time): Coalition Publica might want to releaunch the project of "federating stats" across OJS instances and the national platform (www.erudit.org)
- **Ronald**
    - plugin upgrades for 3.4
    - article imports from other plattforms
- **Alec**
    - Assessing Nextcloud for various things in PKP
    - Just about finished dealing with Huntr reports -- low value as usual. Huntr is pivoting to ML security, so no more expected.
    - OJS/OMP/OPS 3.3.0-16 and 3.4.0-4 to be released soon (possibly tomorrow?)
    - Working on tools for efficient queries of lists of submissions -- see [github discussion](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/discussions/9394)
    - [Merged work](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/discussions/8089) on documenting hooks into `main`; this involved switching from Doxygen to phpDocumentor
- **Joey**
    - TSSU/SFU Strike (has reached an agreement this morning!)
- **Pierre**
    - Working on 3.4 upgrade
    - Making our first code sharing experience!


Agenda
------

- Question of the month: Open Data strategy and roadmap for PKP?
- TC feedback to Directors about "Recommendations for PKP when adopting new software" 
- Review of meeting date/time.
- TC composition, ToR & new members.

## Notes

### Question of the month: Open Data strategy and roadmap for PKP?

PKP would like to gather Open Data requirements for PKP developments. Comments on strategy and potential roadmap are also welcome.

Was a feature request for OJS 3.5: looking for wishlist.
It's also a requirement for Erudit.
- Data citations (research data, other data?)
    - Brainstorm on model: 
        - a string for humans to name the dataset
        - a DOI (required?)
        - access statement? (optional)
    - at which point in OJS we should reproduce the whole research data's metadata (e.g the DataVerse metadata)
- There is a spec filed for adding a data availability statement: https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/6278
- Connected to JATS
Antti-Jussi is also interested in data citations.
Probably could be implemented as an identifier.
OJS is not the proper place to save data.
Marc agrees OJS is not the proper place (servers not thought to store big datasets), but would be nice to explore [jupyter](https://jupyter.org/) integrations.
- link with Open Science and Open source software used to produce the research results published in the article?
- not really technical: permit the Journal to provide instructions to authors on how to handle research data?


### TC feedback to directors "Recommendations for PKP when adopting new software" 

Alec passed feedback to Directors and they said:

> The draft procurement guidelines were not intended to be in any particular order or indication of importance.
> Using and participating in FOSS is important to the directors.
> Procurement has historically been haphazard (which is why the guidelines were developed).
> We invite the TC to work on specific software selections and to engage the relevant user groups in understanding their requirements.

If any TC member has comments or is interested in helping in the choice of tools for PKP, please contact Marc to organize a working group.

Marc expresses interest in helping with the PKP Docs Hub tool election.


## Review of meeting date/time

The current schedule does not fit well with the agendas of some members, so we created a doodle (actually two :-/) to find out if it would be possible to find another slot and the option that has more quorum (7 in favor, 1 against) is still Thursdays at 8:00 PDT, then regrettably, unless somebody has a better proposal, **the meetings will continue to be held as before**.


## TC composition, ToR & new members

It is the task of the TC to supervise its composition, propose to modify its own ToR and assess new member's join petitions.

The current composition of the TC (hackmd link removed) or the Terms of Reference need to be revised.

As a result of the "[pathway to various kinds of contributions to PKP](https://pkp.sfu.ca/2023/07/26/pkps-community-contributor-pathway/)" campaign, there have been some petitions to join the Technical Committee, so Criteria for adding new members to the TC (hackmd link removed) draft need to be revised and approved too.

Discussion
- Building on previous discussion about geographical representation (Sonja) -- we want to have a better mix
- We also want better refreshing of members -- many of the group have been with the TC a long time; finding e.g. chairs is difficult
- Need to watch out for mix of "formal" roles (development partnerships) and "informal" roles (at-large) -- may undermine asks for development partnerships
- General support for increasing membership.
- Uncertainty about formal definition of composition to meet e.g. geographical representation baseline. Outreach and recruitment might be better approach.
- There are limits on effective committee sizes.
- Ideas
    - open TC to more guests
    - rotate members? Dev members, european members
    - more diversity


Options for Next Steps
- Invite prospective members to join as guests?
- We could even expand this into a more broadly open meeting.


### Next Steps / Actions

- Invite 3 prospective new members as guests to the next TC meeting.
- Alec to email prospective members and CC Marc
- Marc and Alec willl work on ToR adaptations and composition.

Old Business
------------

- **About the feature request forum:** A proposal for improvement for the community.
- **What do we want to do from the TC and how will we do it?**: Discussion on the choice of TC themes and the dynamics of operation.
- **Community committee:** Ideas and proposals to help PKP to recover it. List of people/organizations that could be interested.
- **Technical webminars:** TC members will share their knowledge on specific topics. We are looking for volunteers.


Question of the Month
---------------------

- Open Data strategy and roadmap


Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific
