# 15 June 2023 

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: 
- Regrets: , 

Meeting at: [9 PDT](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20221104T160000&p1=tz_pt&p2=256&p3=80&p4=3705&p5=tz_adt&p6=31)
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes)


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Marc**
    - es_ES/ca_ES translation
    - a talk about FLOSS vs OpenScience
    - Docker containers for OJS 3.4 RC2 and RC3.
- **Ronald**
    - plugin upgrades
    - journal migrations
- **Alec**
    - Busy with the 3.4.0 release process!
    - Community testing underway
    - Translations underway
- **Dulip**
    - CRAFT-OA  Requirement specification
    - Integrate TIB ORKG to OJS (using JATS)
- **Pierre**
    - Proposing french translation for version 3.4 on Weblate (missing translations mainly)


### Highlight of the month: ###

- None
        

Agenda
------

> **OJS 3.5: Features brainstorm and prioritization **

PKP invited TC to participate in the 3.5 new features definition and priorization.

Devika designed the process and we used the following table to capture the cases:

![](https://i.imgur.com/MmUPKLF.png)

Before the meeting, what each one of us need to think over any pain/needs/wants/feature requests of users that have come your way during the past one year and how intense they are. Then together ing the meeting the idea is explaining the Use Cases and try to defwe will fill this matrix to the best of your knowledge. Based on your past experience and current knowledge do you thinek the "lowest common denominator" for the TC community members, as well as detect main challanges, pain areas, ideas, synergies, opportunat particular pain/need/want/feature request be easily implemented and map it.

- What themes did we identify?
    - Communication: bounced emails, notifications
    - Submission lists and tracking; business intelligence
    - Typesetting / XML
    - Data migration and import/export
    - Compliance and standards integration (security, CRediT)
- Don't forget community survey from several years back, and support forum priorities...

The results of the session were captured by PKP.

Old Business
------------

- JATS monographic (Session 2)
- Community: How to help PKP to recover community committee?


### Next steps / agreement

In our fist JATS monographic we decided:
- Need to gather good use cases. We use [this document to collect use cases](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jWrUvOPgXcSw5g8T6DSXz9a7W8_AT5rzPoAScZngETM/edit?usp=sharing); **all to add.** Can discuss these next time.
- Marc will work on an updated document resembling "Who's Who in JATS". Any information about new projects (goals, tools, progresss...) is welcome. 


Question of the Month
---------------------

TBD


Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific
