# 21 September 2023 

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Marc, Alec, Alex, Beu, Joey, Ronald, Antti-Jussi, Davin
- Regrets: Dulip

Meeting at: [8 PDT](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20230921T150000&p1=tz_pt&p2=256&p3=80&p4=3705&p5=418&p6=tz_adt&p7=31&p8=37&p9=101)
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes)


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?
- **Alex**
    - Dataverse plugin improvements (with Lepidus) -- OJS compatibility!
    - Author version plugin improvements, for OPS (with Lepidus)
    - Plaudit plugin improvements, for OPS (with Lepidus)
- **Ronald**
    - installations/migration from other platforms of new journals
    - collecting OJS editorial statistics
    - plugin improvments and upgrades
- **Alec**
    - Huntr.dev security issues -- new releases coming, nothing major
    - Hanover sprint
        - Online-first publishing / continuous publication
        - Metadata
        - Stamping journal/press identity metadata on article publications
        - XML Interoperability/Craft OA
        - Easy containers for OxS
        - Documentation
    - Would like to gather Open Data requirements if anyone has them!
- **Marc**
    - Hanover sprint
    - Start smoking... again.
- **Joey**
    - Launching Fragmenting project (OJS API + OpenLayers map)
    - Setting up OJS (in Docker) and experimenting with potential podcast/audio player plugin
    - Was also in Germany (but not for the Hanover sprint — Paderborn for the TEI Conference)


Agenda
------

## Recommendations for PKP when adopting new software (II)

Final goal is to provide feedback/recommendations to PKP on its the draft about the criterias to choose software (link removed) for internal and/or community.

During the first meeting we raised general concerns but we did not manage to concretise them into a proposal for action for PKP.

Alec and Marc had two assignments:
- To make specific recommendations: Make a list of the applications that PKP uses (link removed).
- To prioritise criterias: Argue why the FOSS criterion deserves more relevance (link removed)

In this session we will try to tie up the threads that were left hanging in order to specify the recommendations we want to make.

Reading the [agenda of the last meeting](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2023-08-17.md) is important to keep the track of the conversation.


### Notes
- Discussion on software package spreadsheet
    - Subjectivity of colour coding
    - Relationship between columns and PKP's procurement guidelines -- e.g. vendor lock-in is not included
        - Would be a useful way of proving procurement guidelines
        - Could add a scoring process to remove subjectivity of colour-coding -- but this could get way too elabourate for our actual goals
    - Should we include license?
    - Specific recommendations?
        - Noncontroversial:
            - Google Forms: Shoudln't be using it. LimeSurvey (and probably others) provide a good/data-safe alternative.
            - This could go directly to PKP as a recommendation as-is; likely to find immediate acceptance.
            - e.g. Framadate or rallly.co for polls
        - Good candidates for work:
            - Notion: Used for several kinds of things internally (internal wiki; project tracking; some committee work)
                - Would need engagement with the folks using it to capture details. Then potentially a recommendation to move specific parts of that work to another platform.
                - (BookStack is used effectively by Erudit.)
            - Start with community-facing tools.
        - Difficult:
            - Things like Google Docs that are a catch-all without a good FOSS option (that we're aware of)
            - Tightly enmeshed/integrated suites (e.g. Github)
        - Successes
            - Mattermost, Big Blue Button, Weblate

### Next Steps

- Alec to put together an "umbrella" statement about software choices in preparation for more specific recommendations
- Alec to give a preview of this conversation to the directors
- Davin to give Alec access to Bookstack for a look


### Actions
- [x] Alec will make a list of soft used in PKP so we can help in proposing replacements (if is required).
- [x] Marc to write a brief intro and pass it to the group on Mattermost.
- [ ] Then, Alec to pass feedback to directors.


Old Business
------------

- **About the feature request forum:** A proposal for improvement for the community.
- **What do we want to do from the TC and how will we do it?**: Discussion on the choice of TC themes and the dynamics of operation.
- **Community committee:** Ideas and proposals to help PKP to recover it. List of people/organizations that could be interested.
- **Technical webminars:** TC members will share their knowledge on specific topics. We are looking for volunteers.


Question of the Month
---------------------

TBD


Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific
