# 20 July 2023 

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Alex, Marc, Ronald, Beau, Joey
- Regrets: Alec

Meeting at: [8 PDT](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20230720T150000&p1=tz_pt&p2=256&p3=80&p4=3705&p5=tz_adt&p6=31)
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes)


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Marc**
    - PKP's Annual Meeting TC summary.
    - Helping fellows asking for new Spanish grant (potential new plugins for OJS Statistics, JATS stuff).
    - Plausible presentation in our service. ([Example](https://atheneadigital.net/estadisticas))
    - Server's HW upgrade.
- **Alex**
    - PKP event in Brazil;
    - Dataverse plugin for OJS (with Lepidus);
    - Enhancements on the pre-endorsement plugin using Plaudit (with Lepidus);
    - Custom submission questions for 3.4 (with Lepidus);
    - Improvements on Author Version plugin workflow for OPS (with Lepidus);
- **Dulip**
    - CRAFT-OA - GDPR, specially interoperability work e.g. with jenaway
    - [latexConverter plugin](https://github.com/tibhannover/latexConverter)
    - Portico integration
    - PKP Sprint in Hannover - preparations
- **Ronald**
    - One final OJS 2.4.7 to 3.3 upgrade (trying 2.4.8 to 3.1 XML export/import)
    - Upgrade tsvConverter tool to OJS 3.3
    
### Highlight of the month: ###

- Feedback on [this draft](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15WSfud8PfhajdNvnF1THyaMjlZFQbSjBhB0xW9zJjSk/edit) with a set of procedures that PKP should consider when adopting new software.
        

Agenda
------

**Decision:** Cancelation of the Testing workgroup?

We agreed in cancel the workgroup and recover it in future if is required.
Due the tight agendas, we agreed that is better to assign TC members and subgroups specific tasks than big abstract petitions.

Due to tight schedules, we agreed that it is better to assign specific tasks to workgroups arising from the TC rather than large, more abstract requests. 
We also agree that, when necessary, rather than creating workgroups, it is preferable to create small subgroups that do not require the overhead of coordination.

> **Who's Who in JATS - 2023 report":
 
During the meeting we all reviewed the [first draft of the report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zb6Jgr3ILH-jLxPvJkFpC3z071UkWCpF-E8P7WP_o3o/edit?usp=sharing) that describes the current JATS projects and announces some future projects.

We agreed that, when possible and when it makes sense, we will try to expand the tools "tab" with the information of the JATS version that is implemented.

We will share the document with editing permissions so that all TC members can edit it, suggest changes or add comments.

The document is framed in the strategy of drawing a map of the JATS universe to draw a roadmap for PKP and the community. From the TC we agreed to release this study to the community as soon as we finish it and we would like that to be during the current year.



Old Business
------------

- **What do we want to do from the TC and how will we do it?**: Discussion on the choice of TC themes and the dynamics of operation.
- **About the feature request forum:** A proposal for improvement for the community.
- **Community committee:** Ideas and proposals to help PKP to recover it. List of people/organizations that could be interested.
- **PKP software:** TC answer to Kevin's petition of feedback for [this document](#linkRemoved) that describes what need to be taken in consideration by PKP to adopt a new software.


Question of the Month
---------------------

TBD


Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific
