# 21 December 2023 

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Marc, Alex,
- Regrets: Ronald, Beau

Meeting at: [8 PDT](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20231221T160000&p1=tz_pt&p2=256&p3=80&p4=3705&p5=418&p6=tz_adt&p7=31&p8=37&p9=101)
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes)


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?
- **Marc**
    - Define new server infrastructure (zfs, backup, folder structure...)
    - [Ansible playbooks](https://github.com/marcbria/ansible/) for full server installation.
    - [Justfile helper](https://github.com/marcbria/ansible/blob/main/justfile).
- **Martin**
    - Production implementation of Lucene/Solr search for UZH, bug fixes, working now on translations (de,fr,it,es,pt,ro)
        - Alec to add Lucene plugin to Weblate
    - Improving PubMed export (section filter, sorted output, page ranges, multilinguality, affiliations, funder information.) PubMed was very picky, but finally the XML was accepted. Improved plugin will be shared.
    - (not of general interest: Adapted UZH CD made for a WCMS to a UZH theme for site and journals)
- **Alex**
    - Optimizing database in prep for 3.4 upgrade (thanks Alec!)
    - Compatibilizing plugins developed by Lepidus for 3.4 (with Lepidus).
    - Early discussions about a plugin to collect demographic data from users to meet DEIA needs (with Lepidus).
- **AJ**
    - Working on CRAFT-OA, language code standards etc.
    - Did a succesfull metrics table zipping, from 23 million lines to 13 million lines (not probably needed in 3.4 anymore)
    - Trying to figure out a complicated problem with some users not able to upload files because of access permission to a specific stage
- **Alec**
    - Lots of work on Nextcloud
    - Planning an OJS/OMP/OPS 3.4.1 release in Q1 -- will require a (minor) upgrade script to be run for database migration
    - Will be working on the OSS ORE grant all January
-  **Pierre**
    - Still working on 3.4 upgrade
    - Working on first code contributions to OJS
- **Davin**
    - Full XML workflows (Érudit, PKP, Métopes, Stylo...)
- **Rick**
    - Staff departures have pushed me into handling more journal article quality-control for new issues. Has me wondering if others have automated ways to compare pdf galleys to metadata for consistency.
    - Clinton and my department-mate Tazio are working on getting our plugins up to date with new versions of OJS.


Agenda
------

- **About the EU-ORE** (Marc)
- **Opinions/experiences with RORs / CRediT**
- **How to finish our "Who is who in JATS" report** 

## Notes

### About the EU-ORE
Provide PKP feedback (context, networks, information, thoughts, strategies, ideas, impact, scenarios...). [This report](https://op.europa.eu/en/publication-detail/-/publication/cc087fd8-82b3-11ee-99ba-01aa75ed71a1/language-en) could help as an starting point.

Shows a clear understanding of community development (risks of forking, need to avoid unnecessary technical debt, alignment with community, etc)

![imagen](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/HkUTckzwT.png)


### Opinions/experiences with RORs / CRediT
See the question of the month and mattermost conversations (link removed)

Rasing interest in CRediT & ROR in some regions due national agencies requirements.

CRediT is available for 3.3 and 3.4. Alec will review/test the 3.4 implementation and add to the plugin gallery.

ROR is maintained by Dulip; currently only released 3.3 and don't accept multiple affiliations per author yet. (https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/7135)
Alec will check with Dulip about ROR for 3.4.

### Next Steps / Actions

- [x] Alec to add Lucene plugin to Weblate
- [ ] Alec will review/test the 3.4 implementation and add to the plugin gallery.
- [x] Alec will check with Dulip about ROR for 3.4.
- [ ] Marc and Alec will work on ToR adaptations and composition (delayed).
- [ ] If news, Alec informs about advances in PKP XML strategy.
- [ ] Alec to put together a plan for a webinar on upgrades in Mattermost, including others.

Old Business
------------

- **How to finish our "Who is who in JATS" report:**  What needs to be done? Is still relevant? Should it lead to recommendations for users or to PKP?
- **About the feature request forum:** A proposal for improvement for the community.
- **What do we want to do from the TC and how will we do it?**: Discussion on the choice of TC themes and the dynamics of operation.
- **Members' committee:** Ideas and proposals to help PKP to recover it. List of people/organizations that could be interested.
- **TC composition and ToR:** TC ToR and composition need to be reviewd. Criterias to select need members need to be defined.
- **TC webminars** any volunteers?


Question of the Month
---------------------

- TBD

Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific
