# 17 August 2023 

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Alex, Marc, Alec, Dulip, Antti-Jussi, Piere, Joey
- Regrets: Beau, Ronald, Davin

Meeting at: [8 PDT](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20230817T150000&p1=tz_pt&p2=256&p3=80&p4=3705&p5=418&p6=tz_adt&p7=31&p8=37&p9=101)
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes)


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Dulip**
    - Conference-Plugin
    - jatsTemplate Plugin (Rewriting)
    - publicationValidatorPlugin for 3.3: WIP
    - Portico Troubleshooting:  WIP
    - ithenticate troubleshooting : WIP
    - PKP-Sprint organization
- **Alex**
    - Dataverse plugin improvements (with Lepidus)
    - Author version plugin improvements, for OPS (with Lepidus)
    - Plaudit plugin improvements, for OPS (with Lepidus)
- **Alec**
    - OJS/OMP/OPS 3.4.0-0 and -1 released; -2 due probably tomorrow (Friday)
    - Infrastructure for invitations (GDPR etc) nearly ready for merge
        - Question: What do we do with older data (pre-invitations)?
        - Tension between scholarly record (need to maintain) and GDPR rights (to be forgotten etc)
    - Dev leads workshop Monday -- 9:00am Pacific time. Link to come!
- **AJ**
    - CRAFT-OA work (multilingualism features & metadata issues).
    - Updated OpenAIRE plugin for 3.4
    - Vacation
- **Marc**
    - Vacations
    - Reading Catching up with the CRAFT-OA project.
- **Joey**
    - Podcast/RSS import into OJS
    - Audio player plugin
    - Developing deck.gl / OpenLayers map (with OJS API)


Agenda
------

## Testing workgroup

Alec proposal: If we hosted a 1.5 hour sprint semi-regularly, would it be a way to replace the testing committee?
- Possible tasks: optimization work; optimization methodology; testing; testing documentation
- Concern: What if you're not as quick on your toes in technical contributions, or don't work effectively coding under scrutiny? Is it enough time?
- Suggestion: use the first meeting to brainstorm types of work, then perhaps the second to try it out.
- Suggestion: Consider longer sprints (3 hours?) if the frequently is lower.
- Suggestion: What about bringing in an expert?
- Proposal: Alec to suggest a kick-off meeting
    - Who is invited and how can we communicate with them?
    - Tech committee; dev team; hosting team. (Community?)
    - Alec to find a venue (maybe a Mattermost channel)


## Recommendations for PKP when adopting new software. 

PKP's request on its draft criteria for choosing software for internal and/or community use, together with the change of zoom usage policies opens a debate in which the TC can and should contribute.

The session will start by (1) making a decision on the VC tool to be used by the TC in future meetings and then (2) review [the draft written by PKP](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15WSfud8PfhajdNvnF1THyaMjlZFQbSjBhB0xW9zJjSk/edit) and provide our feedback and recommendations.

### About Videoconference

After several news [1](https://stackdiary.com/zoom-terms-now-allow-training-ai-on-user-content-with-no-opt-out/) [2](https://www.engadget.com/zoom-reverses-policy-that-allowed-it-to-train-ai-on-customer-data-212230598.html) that raised doubts about privacy in Zoom, we at TC considered changing our tool for our regular videoconferences:

For this call, TC experimented with Big Blue Button (thanks Dulip / TIB). It seemed to work very well. TC will continue using this.

### About PKP software

About the draft sent by PKP.

> Question: Who are the users we're talking about? 3rd party developers? Users of PKP software? PKP staff?
- We think it's around selection of software that PKP makes in forming its community environment, but TC can make a general **recommendation** for all of them (as we did with weblate, mattermost...).
- Issue/opportunity: There are various circles of autonomy.

> Question: What are the packages we're using that are not FOSS?
- Zoom; Figma; Google Docs; Notion; etc. These are hard to replace.
- For each, what are the questions?
    - For example, do we accumulate locked-in content with continued use?

> Question: Where do we focus our effort?
- Giving our approval to the list of considerations?
- Identifying existing selections that might not meet the list, and identifying replacements?
- Good FLOSS citizenship on PKP's part does not just involve using the software! But at same time, using FLOSS is a way of supporting it.
- We cannot advocate "open access", "open source", "open science" and not use open tools.

> Feedback from the TC:
- FOSS / licensing is a primary concern of the TC.
- Prioritization of elements in the guidelines may not be sufficiently clear. "If everything is important, nothing is important."
    - A procurement process (to implement the guidelines) might help.
- There is interest in an inventory of tools that are already in use.
- PKP's good FOSS citizenship is more than just using the software. We are frequently free riders.


### Actions
- [x] Alec will make a list of soft used in PKP so we can help in proposing replacements (if is required).
- [x] Marc to write a brief intro and pass it to the group on Mattermost.
- [ ] Then, Alec to pass feedback to directors.


Old Business
------------

- **About the feature request forum:** A proposal for improvement for the community.
- **What do we want to do from the TC and how will we do it?**: Discussion on the choice of TC themes and the dynamics of operation.
- **Community committee:** Ideas and proposals to help PKP to recover it. List of people/organizations that could be interested.


Question of the Month
---------------------

TBD


Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific
