# 16 March 2023

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Alex Mendonça, Davin, Alec, Antti, Sonya Betz, Ronald, Marc, Dulip, Pierre
- Regrets:



Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Dulip**

	- OS-APS  some basic evaluations
    	- Business concept:
        	- OS as the base service component: [ Framework as  MIT license](https://gitlab.com/sciflow/development)
        	- Commercial Sciflow:   Some paid services including template creation and hosting
    	- Technical background:
        	- Node.js application  and docker based installation
        	- Conversion relies on pandoc for word files
        	- maps into a internal json-structure
        	-  Editor (Angular app,ntegrated sciflow services, currently de-coupling is not in plan)
        	- Citations: Zotero integrated, plan a UI-based correction tool for authors for sciflow
        	- Free PDF creation with paged.js  and commercial PDF creation with commercial software and different layers
 	- [Conference Support for OJS](https://github.com/withanage/conference): Basic Prototype, Transaltion of generic terms from OJS  (Thanks Marc for OCS contacts & Antti-Jussi for the  string manpulation)
 	- [Optimeta  Grat phase 1: citations]( https://github.com/TIBHannover/optimetaCitations#screenshots) Wrapping up the development and sustainment strategy. A second application is written.
	-  Technical concept of [Open knowledge graphs](https://orkg.org/simcomp/review/?resourceId=R321277) as a Journal in OJS.
	- CRAFT-OA : GDPR Requirements engineering, Developer training , Documentation templates

- **AJ**
	- Upgrading plugins for 3.4
	- Translating for 3.4
  - Prepared a small survey for our journals to tackle some problematic translations in OJS/OMP
  - Ranting about "Press" and "Galley"
  - CRAFT-OA work, see above Dulip

- **Alex**
	- Upgrading SciELO’s OJS/OPS to 3.3.0-14
	- Organizing PKP Event (not sprint) in São Paulo. Website up soon!
	- UI/UX interview with Devika for submission list redesign
	- Working with Alejandra and Urooj on expanding community coverage in Latin America.

- **Ronald**
	- journal migration (including Postgesql to Mysql conversion)
	- plugin upgrades for OJS 3.4

**Davin**
Coalition Publica JATS XML use case with OJS
Minimal JATS transmission to third party
Complete JATS transmission to third party (draft, to be completed)
ORCID implementation in Érudit (my organization)
To sync with PKP to write something like “best practices for Coalition Publica”
Strategic plan design process is now under discussion for Coalition Publica (including a separate own plan for PKP and Érudit: 3 plans in total if I’m right)

**Alec**
- RC1 testing – whole team is very busy!

### Highlight of the month: ###

- None
   	 

Agenda
------

**Are we ready for Community Testing to begin?**
- Schedule: RC2 expected in approx. 1 week
- Community testing and translation run parallel; 3-4 weeks total
- Test recruitment is not bad in numbers, but not specific.
- Will need a generalized way to collect feedback.
- Group is uncertain, but Github directly might be the least-worst option. 
- Alec to send out Doodle poll or equivalent to set out 1.5 hours for specific testing on remaining high-priority areas

Old Business
------------
- JATS monographic (Session 2)
- Community: Help to recover community committee?
- Support: Proposals to facilitate support work: Knowledge base tool?


### Next steps / agreement

In our fist JATS monographic we decided:
- Marc will work on an updated document resembling "Who's Who in JATS". Any information about new projects (goals, tools, progresss...) is welcome.
- Need to gather good use cases. We use _this document to collect use cases_ (link removed)


Question of the Month
---------------------

TBD


Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific
