# 16 November 2023 

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Marc, Alex, Antti-Jussi, Alec, Rick, Davin, Martin
- Regrets: Pierre, Joey, Beau

Meeting at: [8 PDT](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20231116T160000&p1=tz_pt&p2=256&p3=80&p4=3705&p5=418&p6=tz_adt&p7=31&p8=37&p9=101)
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes)


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?
- **Dulip**
    - CRAFt-OA
    - Rosetta OJS Plugin
    - Tib Theme for OJS  (allowing institutes a seperate page for their own journals: use category function to filter)
    - Plugin ithenticate communication with API (solved)
    - portico problmes (still no solution)
- **Marc**
    - Dealing with a couple of OJS issues (orcid, reverse-proxy...)
    - CRAF-OA stuff.
    - TC documentation (ToR, criterias...)
- **AJ**
    - CRAFT-OA from here to eternity
    - FitSM (https://www.fitsm.eu/) service management training and looking into adopting it in our organisation/for maintaining our OA services
- **Alex**
    - Porting plugins developed by Lepidus to 3.4.
    - Learning OJS documentation relaased in Portuguese (https://docs.pkp.sfu.ca/learning-ojs/3.3/pt/)
    - Testing new PREreview plugin for OPS (uses COAR Notify)
- **Alec**
    - Scrambling to keep up with email! (Back from travel)
    - Planning to release 3.4.0-4 and 3.3.0-16 hopefully tomorrow.
    - Back to trying to determine an XML strategy for PKP
    - Dev Leads webinar coming up on Monday, 9:00am Pacific!
- **Davin**
    - COUNTER R5 (implemented in my org Érudit)
    - OpenAlex as a dataset for researchers


Agenda
------

- Technical webinars
- PKP XML strategy

## Notes

### Technical webinars 

The idea is TC members (or guest starring) will share their knowledge on specific topics.
The session will be recorded to share with the community.

- What do you think about it?
    - TC members are interested.
- Should we use TC meetings slot or it's something to do outside the TC?
    - Could be both.
- Examples of models we could take:
    - Dev leads webinars: e.g. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JEJJ1FVpao0
        - Potentially live, interactive
        - Covers multiple subjects
        - About an hour
    - Brief subject-based sessions: e.g. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qB6H0cl-NI8
        - Brief (~10 minute) sessions on a specific subject
        - Can be a recorded during a regular meeting; if it works, great; if not, we can discard it
        - Would not be interactive
    - Workshop
- Questions/issues
    - Language?
        - English is the lingua franca, but would be nice to have webminars in other langs when/if is possible for the speaker.
    - Technical topic or not only?
        - Don't need to be technical but practical.
- Any volunteers to start? Brainstorm of ideas / volunteer of effort
    - Dev: Debug OJS
    - Dev: Theming
    - Upgrading -- Alec; possibly a webinar
        - possible themes: Multiple instances and automation; testing protocols
    - Specific plugins e.g. ORCiD
    - Automatic testing -- Alec
    - Solr/Lucene:
        - installaton 
        - settings 
        - debug
    - Specific plugins
        - installation and settings
    - Testing
        - manual
        - automatic
    - Docker -- Marc
        - installation
        - upgrade
        - backup
        - reverse proxy for multiple services
        - dealing with multiple instances
- Next steps
    - Alec to put together a plan for a webinar on upgrades in Mattermost, including others.

### PKP XML Strategy

- We're trying to write one! More details soon.
    - Basic ideas:
        - Reduce scope of required editor to just body text
        - Consider HTML-based editor, as these are commodity
    - Feedback:
        - AI is promising for transformation to JATS.
            - Previous attempts e.g. with Grobid may have had too limited a corpus.
            - Corpus could be extended harvesting journals listed in the beacon project.
    - Alec will keep TC informed.


### Next Steps / Actions

- [x] Invite 3 prospective new members as guests to the next TC meeting.
- [x] Alec to email prospective members and CC Marc
- [-] Marc and Alec willl work on ToR adaptations and composition.


Old Business
------------

- **About the feature request forum:** A proposal for improvement for the community.
- **What do we want to do from the TC and how will we do it?**: Discussion on the choice of TC themes and the dynamics of operation.
- **Members' committee:** Ideas and proposals to help PKP to recover it. List of people/organizations that could be interested.
- **TC composition and ToR:** TC ToR and composition need to be reviewd. Criterias to select need members need to be defined.
- **Opinions/experiences with RORs / CRediT.**
    - Does the ROR data represent your journals well (e.g. to use for author affiliations)? 
    - In a perfect world, would you require RORs, have them optional, not use them at all?
    - Do you use CRediT plugin in your journals? Did you find any trouble?
    - Is somebody asking you to do it? Editors, Institutions, Goverment...



Question of the Month
---------------------

- Opinions/experiences with RORs / CRediT

Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific
