# 19 December 2024

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Alec, Martin, Sebastian, Marc, Joey, Alex, AJ
- Regrets: 

Meeting at: [8am Vancouver Time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20241219T160000&p1=256&p2=tz_pt&p3=80&p4=3705&p5=418&p6=37&p7=31&p8=268&p9=101).
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes).


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Martin**
    - Update of SCS production and UZH test platforms to OJS 3.4.0-8 
    - Funding plugin, fix for Crossref DOI / API change
    - Retrodigitisation (1947-1989) of a journal, ongoing. First years online.
    - Updated PubMed export plugin, documentation, see https://github.com/mpbraendle/pubmed . A lot of improvements. Used by a medical and a chemistry journal.
- **Sebastian**
    - Testing "Individualize"-Theme prior to release (planned in Jan 25)
    --> [Preview Instance with multiple Examples](https://plugin_test_examples.testjournals-02.qucosa.de/)
    - Finalizing Migrations to OJS 3.3 (42/45 OJS-Instances migrated)
    - Implementing a Plugin based on https://github.com/ohilbig01/simpleStatistics to use it in a block instead of having to adapt a theme.
- **Marc**
    - Exploring to work in a project to define a protocol for our regional network about how to collaborate arround FLOSS/PKP.
    - Meetings with PKP fellows to [talk about containerization](https://hackmd.io/bpUsSq4vSgu3bFo-x5r6nA). Presentation with [basic concepts](https://hackmd.io/@marcbria/docker4dummies2024#/).
    - Finished all server transfer. Starting with missing OJS 3.3 migrations (delayed due issue with custom review forms that is full fixed in OJS 3.3.0-20).
- **AJ**
    - Upgrade testing of our production data
    - Lot's of importing old archives
    - Doing plugin upgrades
- **Alec**
    - Starting 3.5.0 upgrade/performance testing -- thanks to SciELO for the dataset!
        - 3.3.0 and 3.4.0 upgrade work is really starting to pay off. Upgrade is faster (~20 minutes for a huge dataset) and much more reliable.
        - RC1 due for early next year now.
    - Dimitris recorded a presentation on OpenID for OJS/OMP/OPS -- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=70RXxeDP2O0
    - Dev leads presentation -- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pgx1URodVpo
    - Restarting work on Metabase -- presentation to follow
- **Alex**
    - Finishing setting up SciELO Translations, a translations server that will use OPS. Thanks to Alec/PKP for the support!
    - Working on upgrading OPS to 3.4 (SciELO Preprints).
    - Working on several plugins for SciELO Translation (with Lepidus)
    - Scoping improvements for the Dataverse plugin (with Lepidus)
    
Agenda
------

- **Institutional services management: How do we manage our publishing services?**


Notes
-----

### About "Quick updates"

- Discussion: Receiving emails in OJS
  - Is it possible to capture and process bounces and absence notes?
  - Some concern about the need for testing -- multi language; different clients; etc

### Institutional services management: How do we manage our publishing services?

- Why aren't some large institutions hosting with the latest versions?
    - Unintentional in some cases -- institutional plan is to run latest but a few are held back
    - Tech resources sometimes too busy
    - In some cases, host has lost contact with the editorial group and need permission/plan for archiving/preservation
    - Plugins not being up to date can be an impediment -- but some of this group participated in upgrading them
    - Some had to consider small step (3.3 to 3.4 to 3.5) vs. large step (3.3 to 3.5)
- What labour is required to run a PKP hosting service?
    - Perhaps .5 FTE tech resource who is (or becomes) informed about PKP software specifically, based on maybe 5 data points.
- Major challenges
    - UAB
        - Clean URLs -- have a good set of rules now, but it was hard
            - Each major host probably has their own -- Apache, nginx, subdomains, their own domains, ...
        - Keeping up to date (PKP hopes this will be better with 3.4, 3.5, and future)
            - Some hosts use toolsets for this -- e.g. UAB with DOJO
        - Plugin management and keeping plugins up to date
        - Automated testing on upgraded installations
    - UZH
        - Need 2FA authentication; not everyone is going to want to use ORCiD and we can't force them.
            - Alec: See above link re: OpenID plugin. Keycloak can be used to provide 2FA.
        - Incomplete translations
        - Also plugins
    - SLUB
        - Old VM to new VM infrastructure migration
        - Plugin management again
        - Configuration migration and upgrades
    - SciELO
        - Slow upgrades in the past -- this has hopefully been improved
            - 3.2 to 3.3: ~1 week (!)
            - 3.3 to 3.4: ~2 hours
            - 3.4 to 3.5: ~20 minutes
        - Email delivery -- reliability
            - Penalties for bounces (e.g. gmail)
            - Password expiry with gmail SMTP delivery -- somewhat random
            - What about e.g. 2 delivery services -- one for batch (Mailgun), another for important/individual?
    - Pitt
        - Keeping up with plugin development when we're on an older release e.g. LTS?
        - Still pending Shibboleth support update.
- Tips & tricks
    - UAB: Dojo / ansible
    - UZH: Jira, scrum meetings, tracking
    - SLUB: Python + bash automation for e.g. creating installs; distributing translation fixes
    - Pitt: Local bash scripts for backup, restore, upgrade

- Opportunities for future discussion
    - Plugin updates and management
        - Need an "Update all" feature
        - What about plugins that need attention on change -- e.g. iThenticate rewrite
    - Automated testing
        - After upgrading an install, how can we know it's working as expected?
    - Emails -- bouncing and delivery

Quick survey on TC members' infrastructures:
(link not included)

TBD

### Housekeeping

- TC chair rotation.
- ToR update.


Pending work
------------

Next steps:
- Group to try various proofs of concept
    - AI / chatbot options (Martin)
    - Tools identified above (Marc)
    - FAQ area in forum for guiding support / Github Discussions for policies (Alec)
- Alec to let Roger / support forum folks know that we're looking at options



### Question of the month

TBD


Old Business
------------

- :one: [API patterns](https://mattermost.publicknowledgeproject.org/pkp/pl/b79g55jnmifpby3tmc8m8wzcxc): Jarda is asking for feedback.
- :two: OMP dev priorities: If you could make a small development for OMP, what would it be?
- :three: Version and Support communication page: What to show? General rules? [Example](https://www.php.net/supported-versions.php)
- :four: Ideas for the [Health Check plugin](https://github.com/asmecher/healthCheck).
- :five: Contextual help in OxS: Missing oportunity? Improve or abandon it?
- :six: Open Repositories integrations (SignPosting, FAIRiCat, COARNotify).
- :seven: Plugins unification and gallery structure. 
- :eight: GDPR documentation.
- :question: New topic: new subject not listed above (include as comment to this thread)


Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Vancouver time
