# 19 September 2024

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Martin, Dulip, Marc
- Regrets: Alex, Joey, Davin

Meeting at: [8am Vancouver Time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20240920T150000&p1=256&p2=tz_pt&p3=tz_pdt&p4=80&p5=3705&p6=418&p7=tz_adt&p8=37&p9=31&p10=268&p11=101).
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes).


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Martin**
    - Upgrade of UZH production platform (20 journals) to OJS 3.4.0-5, post-fixes
    - Various translations
- **Dulip**
    - Server  updates , security fixes
    - CRAFT-OA
    - Migrations
- **AJ**
    - The same CRAFT-OA
    - Arranged our first "OJS and OMP Editor's day"
    - Doing some last migrations for journal archives before our production upgrade to 3.4 and a new server.
- **Marc**
    - OJS 3.3 back to UAB (upgrade issues).
    - CRAFT-OA.
    - Translation fixes for es_ES in the LTS (outside weblate).
    - Arrangements for second editors' day in our institution.
- **Ronald**
    - vacation in Japan/Korea ;-)
    - migration from non-OJS system and update of tsvConverter (https://github.com/ajnyga/tsvConverter/tree/rewriteToDOM)
    - more work on our OJS containerization (internal administrative discussions and practical test on our container test server)
    - far too little on the XML project
- **Alec**
    - OSS ORE work plan etc.
    - Brainstorming/thinking through workflow involving document editing
    - Thinking about two possible editor integrations: a LibreOffice-type integration early in the workflow, and a more stripped down semantic-ish editor later.

- **Sebastian**
    - Experimenting with OPS for a first productive instance at SLUB
    - Creating a OJS theme plugin with Nate for more flexible frontend representation + Plugin for easier GDPR-conform use of Google Fonts across theme plugins


Agenda
------

- **Quality control for Plugin Gallery**


Notes
-----

- **About "Quick updates"**: 
    - Thinking about two possible editor integrations: a LibreOffice-type integration early in the workflow, and a more stripped down editor later. Thoughts:
        - Sebastian: FidusWriter is extensible e.g. via plugins. LibreOffice is very hard to control. We want to create the possibility to extend the editor.
        - Antti-Jussi:
            - Editors aren't asking for a way to edit docx files natively. More interested in the later stages: layout etc.
            - Need good way of handling media files. Files attached to a single galley is too strict. Need to be attached to a submission.
        - Alec: Purpose of something like a word processor integration would be to reduce reliance on upload/download cycles early in the workflow, e.g. reviewer commenting directly on a file in situ.
            - To be clear: it doesn't move us towards our clearest priority (typesetting) and would certainly confuse users if they had two editors at once.
        - Antti-Jussi: It might be possible to convert behind the scenes and present a converted document to e.g. reviewers rather than integrating a full editor.
        - Marc: Would FidusWriter involve more duplication of content (e.g. metadata with OJS database) rather than a stripped-down web editor? Ideal solution would be something that we could integrate in OJS, like a webEditor.
        - Alec: Collabora has a good integration guide that nicely respects the boundaries between editor and storage: https://sdk.collaboraonline.com/docs/How_to_integrate.html
        - Alec: More feedback/brainstorming is welcome!


- **Quality control for Plugin Gallery**
    - Different plugins in the gallery not working at all (e.g. Portico, RQC) or causing issues down the line (e.g. Quicksubmit, Funding). 
    - Anyone with comparable experiences? 
        - Sebastian: Plugins recently don't always respect the minimum required PHP version.
    - Questions would be: 
        - What is done right now? 
            - PKP reviews at a high level for safety, generally without testing directly (Alec, increasingly also Bozana, Erik, and others)
            - Trust level with developer plays a role in depth of review
            - There are 3 levels of trust indicated in the plugin gallery:
                - Reviewed (code checked by PKP), Partner (PKP trusts them), Official (PKP maintains the plugin)
         - What is the workload at PKP in this respect? 
            - Alec: Increasing! Good sign from ecosystem, but PKP needs to be careful for workload and clear with expectations from community.
        - How can we help? What could be automated? 
            - Alec: Some plugins do have automated testing. Dulip has recently moved the infrastructure from Travis CI to Github Actions.
        - Should we insist on more tests from the developer side?
- Ideas for improvement
    - Motivate more use of automated testing
        - Documentation on automated testing for plugins: https://docs.pkp.sfu.ca/dev/plugin-guide/en/release#write-tests-for-your-plugin
    - Indicate more information about the plugin.
        - What locales are included?
        - Does it have automated testing?
        - How often is the plugin used?
        - Ratings? Comments?
        - Version compatibility (with ojs and underlaying techs) and dependencies.
    - Build in better error handling (e.g. when installing a plugin that's not compatible) -- in progress as part of a general exception handling improvement
        - Don't let a plugin break an upgrade (or OJS).
            - Make plugins load contingent on their own assessment of compatibility -- by building the compatibility data available in the Plugin Gallery into the plugin itself, with semantic versioning.
    - Adapt the documentation for Github Actions as a recommendation, but everything does still work with Travis. We could be pretty neutral about this.
    - Technical Committee could participate in plugin testing.
    - Web-based access to Plugin Gallery, a la Wordpress.

#### Current github actions integration examples
- https://github.com/pkp/pkp-github-actions/issues/56



Pending work
------------

Next steps:
- Group to try various proofs of concept
    - AI / chatbot options (Martin)
    - Tools identified above (Marc)
    - FAQ area in forum for guiding support / Github Discussions for policies (Alec)
- Alec to let Roger / support forum folks know that we're looking at options



### Question of the month

"Plugins unification and gallery structure" that will be also the topic of the next meeting.


Old Business
------------

:one: Institutional services management: How do we manage our publishing services?
:two: API patterns: Jarda is asking for feedback.
:three: OMP dev priorities: If you could make a small development for OMP, what would it be?
:four: Version and Support communication page: What to show? General rules? [Example](https://www.php.net/supported-versions.php)
:five: Ideas for the [Health Check plugin](https://github.com/asmecher/healthCheck).
:six: Contextual help in OxS: Missing oportunity? Improve or abandon it?
:seven: Open Repositories integrations (SignPosting, FAIRiCat, COARNotify).
:eight: Plugins unification and gallery structure. 
:nine: GDPR documentation.
:question: New topic: new subject not listed above (include as comment to this thread)


Other topics
------------
- Ronald has done excellent work with upgrading the tsvConverter script. My suggestion is to rename it now to something easier to understand and come up with a better hosting place where we can continue to work on it together.

Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Vancouver time
