# 18 January 2024

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Martin, Alex, Dulip, Marc, Ronald, Davin, Alec, Rick, Joey, Pierre
- Regrets: Anti-Jussi, Beau.

Meeting at: [8 PST](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20240118T160000&p1=tz_pt&p2=256&p3=80&p4=3705&p5=31)
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes)


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Martin**
    - Improving PubMed Export Plugin, prepare next journal (dentistry) for PubMed export
    - Translations, translations (Lucene and other plugins)
    - Feedback on draft of Swiss National OA Strategy (phase 2), which includes Diamond OA
    - Read DIAMAS report on EQSIP v2, The Extensible Quality Standard in Institutional Publishing. Preparing feedback
    - Playing a lot of jazz in Burghausen.
-  **Alex**
    - Still prepping for 3.4 upgrade (OJS/OPS)
    - Still compatibilizing plugins developed by Lepidus for 3.4 (with Lepidus). 
- **Ronald**
    - playing around with the sliderHome plugin integrating vue.js ListPanel component
    - DNB plugin for OJS 3.4, final test with DNB finished
    - importing content from an OJS 2 journal to OJS 3.3 via Native XML (based on https://github.com/ronste/ojs-2xto3x-xwalk)
    - containerizing docx -> xml comverions tools
- **Marc**
    - XMas vacations
    - Helping a DIAMAS partner with the EQSIP v2 with items categorization and document clarification.
    - Helping fellows with an ancient OJS 2.x to 3.3-LTS.
- **Joey**
    - Not me directly, but SFU's Digital Humanities Innovation Lab: further work on OJS install in Docker: https://github.com/sfu-dhil/ojs-docker
- **Dulip**
    - general develpments in last months
        - https://github.com/tibHannover/latexConverter
        - https://github.com/withanage/teitojats
            - pending jatstotei: stylesheets are ready
        - CRAFT-OA develops Peer-review metadata export in JATS
            - most-probably the metada will be embedded as notes

    
### Highlight of the month: ###

- None
        

Agenda
------

Beau presented his resignation to the TC.

We thank him for the time he have taken to attend all the meetings and contribute his work and opinion and remind that the door is always open for reinstatements.

If nobody is against, PKP will apreciate if we can spend some extra time repeating our last agenda:

- **About the EU-ORE:** Check this report before the meeting to provide PKP feedback (context, networks, information, thoughts, strategies, ideas, impact, scenarios...)


Next month:

- **How to finish our "Who is who in JATS" report:** What needs to be done? Is still relevant? Should it lead to recommendations for users or to PKP?



Old Business
------------

:one: What do we want to do from the TC and how will we do it?: Discussion on the choice of TC themes and the dynamics of operation.
:two: Who's Who in JATS - 2023 report": Review together the report that describes current projects and announce upcoming ones. Also think about if/how it will be shared with the coommunity.
:three:  About the feature request forum: A proposal for improvement for the community.
:question: New topic: new subject not listed above.


Question of the Month
---------------------

TBD


Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific Time (PST)
