# 18 April 2024

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Martin, AJ, Marc, Ronald, Alec, Alex, Rick, Davin
- Regrets: Dulip

Meeting at: [8am Vancouver Time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20240418T150000&p1=256&p2=tz_pt&p3=tz_pdt&p4=80&p5=3705&p6=418&p7=tz_adt&p8=31&p9=37&p10=101).
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes).


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Martin BrÃ¤ndle**
    - MaxMind GeoIP2 implementation in usageStats plugin (OJS 3.3.0-x)
    - CustomLocale plugin (OJS 3.3.0-x): Use current app locale for initial list of locale files
    - Updated two production environments (multi- and single-journal) to OJS 3.3.0-17
    - Began work on a PubMed references plugin
- **AJ**
    - First official review in CRAFT-OA project
    - Zipping our production metrics table (from 24 million rows to 11 million)
    - Translating goTriple service to Finnish
    - Working on new set of themes for Journal.fi and Edition.fi with Nate
    - Starting to work on CRAFT-OA T4.3 issues related to metadata
    - Sitting in too many meetings
- **Marc**
    - Chairwork
    - Dealing with mod_rewrite combinations for domain, subdomain, folder behind a reverse proxy (again).
    - Looking for new organizations that like to be Members.
    - Reviewing Privacy Notes
- **Ronald**
    - XML Workflow tool
    - Journal migration to OJS
- **Alec**
    - XML WG met and confirmed OSS ORE strategy for OJS XML toolset beyond OSS ORE application
    - Released several plugins -- CRediT for OJS 3.4, QuickSubmit updates, custom locale plugin
    - PKP|PN plugin is also available now for 3.4 (not my work)
- **Alex**
    - Adapting Dataverse plugin for OPS/OJS 3.4 (with Lepidus)
    - Ongoing work with user demographic data plugin (with Lepidus)
- **Rick**
    - Working on updating ClamAV plugin for OJS 3.4
    - DB cleanup to prep a couple of our 3.3 sites for PHP 8 upgrade
- **Davin**
    - Update Coalition Publica (CP) 2024 planification with experimentation to create a CP OJS plugin to ingest our full XML JATS back in OJS
- **Dulip**
  -  Long-time archiving and PDF validation plugin
  -  CRAFT-OA Summer-school-  
  -  ROR Support for 3.4 from Gazi

### Highlight of the month: ###

- None
        

Agenda
------

- **TC internal matters:**


Notes
-----

- **TC internal matters:**
    - Members' renewal.
        - Have responses from almost everyone; Marc will follow up with the rest.
        - Propose taking care of renewals in a less scattered way: review once per year, 1st April. Accepted.
    - New member.
        - Stefan from Uni Dresden would like to join. Will likely join next meeting.
    - Chair's handover.
        - Looking for candidates! Please email Marc if you're interested.
        - There's room to shape the role as you like: more directed meetings, less directed meetings...
        - Minimum tasks:
            - prepare the agenda for each monthly meeting,
            - manage membership,
            - prepare summaries for the Advisory Committee and attend to their quarterly meetings
        - Challenges:
            - Finding topics to talk about. Need to be interesting enough for PKP and the group.
        - Opportunities:
            - XML WG participation
            - Feature request management
            - Global representation
            - Clearer roadmap, versions, support, requirements, etc.
    - Pending work...
        - Hall of fame updating. Adding new members.
        - [Existing ToR](https://hackmd.io/kIzxS4bVQbetww69YdIAdQ).
            - Need to continue conversation with TSV.
            - AJ: Suggest we keep the delineation of development partnerships firm.
            - Alec: Suggest we create a category for individual exceptional contributors.
                - Davin: Does the support not come from the institution to permit the individual's time to come to us? Not always.
            - Ronald: What about individual members invited by the committee? (For specific topics, for a specific period of time?)
                - This is covered by our ToR. 
            - Agreed on the following proposal (final number is the same):
                - [1->1] PKP Liaison (unchanged)
                - [0->1] SFU Liaison (new position)
                - [n->4] PKP Dev partners (unchanged)
                - [3->1] Members committee
                - [3->5] Additional members
        - [Member's election process](https://hackmd.io/UXpPQZwhTnOTz16wqMWSIg).
            - Alec / Ronald : E&I: Not sure about explicit ranking of gender e.g. above geographic diversity. Suggest making diversity a single point.
            - Marc: Remembers diversity is relevant because define how you think and look into technical solutions, but taking in consideration the goal of the group, technical perspective and commitment to Open Science (OA, OC, FLOSS...) comes first. 
            - Alex: Need to be aware of language requirements around English. Might want to be clear about language requirements.
    - Logistics (for next meetings).
        - Nextcloud use for tech committee?
        - Election of topics?
        - Notification (calendar, mattermost?)
        - Calendar?
        - ...

Actions
-------

- Chair will:
    - Sort and forward those proposals for the ToR and TC member's election to the Advisory.
    - Coordinate with PKP coms to fix the TC page in PKP website.
    - Confirm everybody have renewed their membership.
    - Continue to serve until a new volunteer emerges to serve as chair.


Old Business
------------

- :one: Version and Support communication page.
- :two: What do we want to do from the TC and how will we do it?: Discussion on the choice of TC themes and the dynamics of operation.
- :question: New topic: new subject not listed above.


Question of the Month
---------------------

TBD


Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Vancouver time
