# 15 February 2024

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Marc, Martin, Dulip, AJ, Alex, Joey, Alec
- Regrets:

Meeting at: [8 PST](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20240216T160000&p1=tz_pt&p2=256&p3=80&p4=3705&p5=418&p6=tz_adt&p7=31&p8=37&p9=101)
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes)


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Dulip**
    - Long-term archving plugin Rosetta
    - Integration of JATS from Open-Research-Knowledge Graph
    - CRAFT-OA - GDPR
    - Portico Plugin preliminary tests (Time consuming expierence)
- **Marc**
    - DIAMAS - Review EQSIP v2.3
    - CRAFT-OA - Review Devika's proposal.
    - CRAFT-OA - Last checks before [WP4 survey](https://survey.academiccloud.de/index.php/897363) is released. - Please spread.
    - Ansible playbooks for OS and OJS maitenance.
    - Convesations in mattermost about Multilingualism. 
- **AJ**
    - CRAFT-OA: Multilingualism issues, for example moving language selection to the url https://craft-test.online/699
    - Rewriting our technical guides for Editors and looking into alternatives for hosting technical guides. At the moment using _Docsify.js_ https://tsv-fi.github.io/avoimen-julkaisemisen-palveluiden-ohjeet/#/
    - Starting a project to rewrite Journal.fi and Edition.fi Site and Context theme plugins. Small visual changes, better mobile layouts, more modern CSS. (Hired a scottish developer to do the job)
-  **Alec**
    -  Contacted by a group with interest in a toolkit to extract and index media references (books, movies) e.g. from PDFs
        -  CrossRef might have a way of indexing PDFs using DOI-tagged media citations?
    -  Removing KLOCs of old / deprecated code from `main` :)
- **Martin**
    - DIAMAS - EQSIP v2.3 survey
    - CRAFT OA survey on upgrading OJS
    - PubMed Export Plugin improvements
    - Swiss Dental Journal migration from Typo3 / PubMed / ... to OJS 3.3
- **Ronald**
    - OJS 2 to OJS 3.3 migration via native XML
    - docx to JATS XML conversion
- **Alex**
    - Still working with Lepidus on adapting  plugins to OJS 3.4.
- **Pierre**
    - Finalizes our first contributions to OJS: https://github.com/orgs/pkp/projects/35/views/1
    - Help journals with OJS 3.4, especially emails
- **Joey**
    - Continuing work on podcast plugin for OJS

     
### Highlight of the month: ###

- None
        

Agenda
------

- *Upgrade suport:* Consider excluding in upgrade tools versions preceding 3.3 when launching next LTS (3.5)
    - Marc: It's a common practice to support upgrades only from the last LTS, but I'd like to see version distribution e.g. from the beacon.
        - If we offer docuentation and tools for an upgrade path, it's ok.
        - We could look at the beacon data just prior the release and decide then.
    - Alec: Data from January beacon update.
        | Version | Journals |
        |:------- |:--------:|
        | 2.4     |  10175   |
        | 3.0     |   1392   |
        | 3.1     |  10096   |
        | 3.2     |   8624   |
        | 3.3     |  31553   |
        | 3.4     |   1749   |
    - Martin: OK with a landing pad at 3.3 for folks who are using older releases. The upgrade path is clear and well-known.
        - Policies for upgrading PHP may be a motivating issue. Many institutions are taking down older PHPs.
    - Marc: We talk about the cost of upgrade, but there are additional costs (support, security patches...)
    - AJ: we should not support an application working with an outdated php.
    - Alec: PHP versions are an issue for us. We need to support OJS releases across a set of PHP releases; the ADODB / old upgrade toolset does cost us maintenance time keeping it running with newest PHP.
        - We are also committing to supporting those upgrades for another 3-5 years if we release it in an LTS.
    - Marc: If we offer docuentation and tools for an upgrade path, it's ok to cut support older than the old LTS.
        - Alec: We have a lot of documentation; we could revise, but more documentation probably won't help.
        - Alec: The upgrade process has gotten a lot of effort since 3.2.x; I think it's enough to carry us through, but will sometimes require interventions due to old data needing manual correction.
    - All are OK to drop the 3.2 and prior upgrade toolkit from 3.5.

- *Feature request forum:* How it works. How could be improved.
    - Marc: It's an abyss -- feature requests get filed and do not receive the attention they deserve.
        - What would this group like to do with feature requests?
    - Alec: Maybe we could start by reviewing what has happened since last time e.g. Alex collected feature requests. Not wanting to redo that work, is it possible to look at the results since then? e.g. the addition of voting and highly-voted items?
    - Marc: [Issues found](https://hackmd.io/vYL-dJ1DR82vYbK0cTyFaQ)
    - Marc: Could we give this to the member's committee?
    - Antti-Jussi: Could use a sprint group to review feature requests.
    - Martin: Problem: forum posts tend to disappear.
    - Pierre: Formatting of feature requests is inconsistent and difficult. The person proposing the feature should be prepared to do more work -- find interest from others, etc. It's not enough to just create a feature request.
    - Martin: What are other FOSS communities doing?
    - To be continued in next meeting.


Next month:

- **How to finish our "Who is who in JATS" report:** What needs to be done? Is still relevant? Should it lead to recommendations for users or to PKP?


Old Business
------------

:one: What do we want to do from the TC and how will we do it?: Discussion on the choice of TC themes and the dynamics of operation.
:two: Who's Who in JATS - 2023 report": Review together the report that describes current projects and announce upcoming ones. Also think about if/how it will be shared with the coommunity.
:three: How it works. How could be improved.
:question: New topic: new subject not listed above.


Question of the Month
---------------------

TBD


Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Pacific Time (PST)
