# 18 July 2024

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Marc, Martin, Alec, Sebastian, Dulip
- Regrets: Joey

Meeting at: [8am Vancouver Time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20240718T150000&p1=256&p2=tz_pt&p3=tz_pdt&p4=80&p5=3705&p6=418&p7=tz_adt&p8=37&p9=31&p10=268&p11=101).
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes).


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Martin**
    -  Upgraded UZH test server to OJS 3.4, UZH team now testing
    -  Migrated Conference plugin to OJS 3.4
    -  Fixed Lucene plugin to work with OJS 3.4
    -  Migrated a large journal (1897-now) to UZH OJS platform
    -  Upgraded a large journal production platform (>7000 articles) to OJS 3.4. Figuring out last fixes

- **Marc**
    - Two first pilots (two journals) moved to new server with "[dojo](https://github.com/marcbria/dojo)" infrastructure.
        - Automatically moved form servers and upgraded in 15 minutes.
        - Missing journals (47 OJS) after vacations.
    - CRAFT-OA work (define what documentation need to be written).
    - Dinamize OJS-ES network to improve the way we work together.

- **Sebastian**
    - Still in migration of Journals to "newer" Infrastructure with seperate Subdomains and VHosts
    - Upgrading all Instances to 3.3.0 to prepare for OJS 3.5 LTS Migration next year
    - Developing METS-OAI-Metadata-Plugin for connection to long time archive at SLUB
    - Testing our first OPS-Server at SLUB (for mobility research)

- **Alec**
    - Upcoming 3.3.0 and 3.4.0 releases in ~1 week
    - Starting to mock up fulltext editing ideas for OJS/OMP/OPS
    - Gathering ideas/requirements for OMP work
    - Turin sprint in October is pretty much full up! (50+ participants)

- **Dulip**
    - Data import (around 1k articles)
    - Grant application for 

Agenda
------

- KM tool to capture complex operational rules.


Notes
-----

- Discussion: Locale files and contributions to 3.3.0-x
    - Alec: We have a summiting toolkit (https://github.com/asmecher/summit-tools) but it's not been applied consistently -- a little painful to use. Will need to improve these tools / apply consistently.
- Discussion: Testing and QA
    - Alec: PKP is hiring a new person in a QA role for the first time. Will review previous materials with them.

- KM tool to capture  
    - complex operational rules.
        - These could be end-user documentation, and/or for developers who need to maintain a feature.
    - decisions about political decisions.
        - e.g.: Why is Taiwan listed as "Taiwan, province of China"? 
    - workarounds. 
        - How do I implement continuous publishing in OJS 3.3.0?
    - Tips.
    - FAQs / Q&A.
    - Snippets.
    - Usual tasks
        - e.g: find your servers logs or your OJS version.
    - ...

- Potential tools (Marc's list)
    - IA 
        - Katie
    - FAQs, Q/A management & StackOverflow clones:
        - https://www.phpmyfaq.de/
        - https://github.com/Retrospring/retrospring
        - https://scoold.com/
        - https://codidact.com/
        - https://github.com/AskalotCQA/askalot
        - https://github.com/meloalright/guora
        - https://www.question2answer.org/
        - https://www.answeroverflow.com/
        - https://answer.apache.org/
    - Ticket management:
        - https://www.zentao.pm/
        - https://osticket.com/features
        - http://traq.io/
    - Form generator:
        - https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks
        - https://tikitrackers.org/
        - https://apps.nextcloud.com/apps/forms
        - https://topanswers.xyz/
        - drupal + webforms
    - "Airtable" Clone:
        - https://www.nocobase.com/
        - https://www.getgrist.com/
        - https://baserow.io/
    - Complex Business Process Modelling: 
        - https://bpmn.io/

Martin: Reading the forum a chatbot will save a lot of work.
Alec: How do we capture knowledge.

Next steps:
- Group to try various proofs of concept
    - AI / chatbot options (Martin)
    - Tools identified above (Marc)
    - FAQ area in forum for guiding support / Github Discussions for policies (Alec)
- Alec to let Roger / support forum folks know that we're looking at options



### Question of the month

Next month:

- August meeting is cancelled for vacation; to be resumed in September.


Old Business
------------

:one: Institutional services management: How do we manage our publishing services?
:one: API patterns: Jarda is askign for feedback.
:three: OMP dev priorities: If you could make a small development for OMP, what would it be?
:four: Version and Support communication page: What to show? General rules?
:five: Health Check plugin.
:six: Contextual help in OxS: Missing oportunity? Improve or abandon it?
:seven: Open Repositories integrations (SignPosting, FAIRiCat, COARNotify).
:eight: Plugins unification adn gallery structure. 
:nine: GDPR documentation.
:question: New topic: new subject not listed above.


Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Vancouver time
