# 21 November 2024

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Alex, Marc, Martin, Davin, Alec, Dulip, Ronald, Sebastian
- Regrets: Antti-Jussi

Meeting at: [8am Vancouver Time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20241121T160000&p1=256&p2=tz_pt&p3=80&p4=3705&p5=418&p6=37&p7=31&p8=268&p9=101).
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes).


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Martin**
    - Update of UZH test platform (20 journals) to OJS 3.4.0-7
    - Update of SCS production platform to OJS 3.4.0-7
    - PKP Sprint Torino
    - Involved in planning for additional UZH IT position for OJS
    - began work for tsvConverter support for OJS 3.4
    - tsvConverter for OJS 3.4, first test with retrodigitized issue
    - Helped birth of 21st journal on UZH platform
    - Swiss OJS network meeting, planning for application to swissuniversities for setting up a support hub
- **Marc**
    - All journals back to our institutions and managed now with "dojo".
    - Technical migration of 40 journals in 2 hours (preparation? one year.)
    - Issues found (ZFS snaps are like magic).
    - Participate in PKP Docs workgroup: Looks like we will move to Hugo.
    - "Editors's day" presentations for the OA Week.
    - Moving PKP surveys to the new server.
    - Moving other UAB services (plausible, uptimekuma, drupal...)
    - OJS-ES Netwoork dinamization: Raising interest about PFL plugin.
- **Sebastian**
    - Working with Nate Wright on OJS-Theme Plugin for OJS 3.3+ 
    - Developing OAI-Metadata Plugin Prototype for METS/MODS
    - Currently looking for Open Source PDF2Text Solutions for Fulltext Search in OJS and Institutional Repository
    - Work on German localisation of plugins
- **Ronald**
    - Container automatization with podman
    - Experimenting with Natural Language Processing (Named Enity Recognition) for XML-Workflow
    - Update tsvConverter Plugin to handle cover images
    - Used tsvConverter for journal imports
- **Alec**
    - Trying hard to get 3.5.0 into RC1 state!
    - There will be 3.3.0 and 3.4.0 releases in the next couple of weeks
    - Experimenting with WebDAV to transparently handle word processor document downloads & uploads
    - Nearly ready with a concensus-ish recommendation on typesetting for 3.6
    - Curious about automatic deployment technology for Github Actions for testing purposes
- **Alex**
    - Setting up an OPS instalation to operate with translations of published articles and book chapters.
    - Piloting demographic questions plugin (for DEIA, created with Lepidus) with a couple of SciELO journals.
- **Davin**
    - Coalition Publica Stats usage: merge distributed stats (OJS and Ã‰rudit)
- **Dulip**
    - CRAFT-OA work
    - Server upgrades


Agenda
------
- **"Plugins unification and gallery structure" continuation**


Notes
-----

### About "Quick updates"

Ronald fixed tsvConverter here:
- https://github.com/ajnyga/tsvConverter/tree/rewriteToDOM

Alec made a brief presentation of the new JATS architecture.

For html transformations, Martin recommends taking a look to those tools:
- https://pagedjs.org/
- https://vivliostyle.org/


### Plugins unification and gallery structure

- Quality control of the plugins:
    - PKP would like to scale code reviews for the plugin gallery beyond the 1-2 people who currently do it
    - Alec will pass a plugin for review by the TC Mattermost channel to see how that works.
- Democratize the plugin gallery:
    - Guidelines for what need to be included.
    - Need to search e.g. Wordpress guidelines on what is appropriate for the plugin gallery
        - e.g. "The administrator is in control of what code runs on the server."
- Need a presentation in the PKP website of plugins available in the gallery 
    - Learn from WP, Filemaker, Home-assistant, Nextcloud, Drupal...
    - Info to add:
        - Creator: Official, Reviewed, Partners, Third party...
        - Maintainer? Versions? Rating? Manual? Code? Download? GPDR? Cookies? Accessible? Requirements? number of installations/downloads...
    - Potential new fields in Plugin Gallery:
        - Does this plugin use external JS? Does this plugin export personal metadata to 3rd parties? Is this plugin accessible?
    - Presenting the number of installations would be helpful.
- What about safety when e.g. plugins can install 3rd party code?
    - PKP could require a clear disclaimer in the plugin gallery, then not take further responsibility.
    - PKP could improve the plugin upload tools, outside the gallery, to be more resilient. Then declare some plugin areas to be better for that.
- In the plugin upload tool, plugins need to:
    - Inform OJS about the compatible version.
    - Don't break OJS.
    - These are both tasks that were experimented with in the Italy sprint.
- Plugin Gallery needs UX work...
    - Notification of a new plugin version (upgrade) outside of the Plugin Gallery would be helpful



Pending work
------------

Next steps:
- Group to try various proofs of concept
    - AI / chatbot options (Martin)
    - Tools identified above (Marc)
    - FAQ area in forum for guiding support / Github Discussions for policies (Alec)
- Alec to let Roger / support forum folks know that we're looking at options



### Question of the month

TBD


Old Business
------------

:one: Institutional services management: How do we manage our publishing services?
:two: [API patterns](https://mattermost.publicknowledgeproject.org/pkp/pl/b79g55jnmifpby3tmc8m8wzcxc): Jarda is asking for feedback.
:three: OMP dev priorities: If you could make a small development for OMP, what would it be?
:four: Version and Support communication page: What to show? General rules? [Example](https://www.php.net/supported-versions.php)
:five: Ideas for the [Health Check plugin](https://github.com/asmecher/healthCheck).
:six: Contextual help in OxS: Missing oportunity? Improve or abandon it?
:seven: Open Repositories integrations (SignPosting, FAIRiCat, COARNotify).
:eight: Plugins unification and gallery structure. 
:nine: GDPR documentation.
:question: New topic: new subject not listed above (include as comment to this thread)


Other topics
------------
- Ronald has done excellent work with upgrading the tsvConverter script. My suggestion is to rename it now to something easier to understand and come up with a better hosting place where we can continue to work on it together.

Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Vancouver time
