# 21 March 2024

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Alex, Davin, Alec, Antti-Jussi, Dulip, Marc, Martin, Joey, Ronald
- Regrets:

Meeting at: [8am PST](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20240321T160000&p1=tz_pst&p2=tz_pt&p3=tz_pdt&p4=256&p5=80&p6=3705&p7=418&p8=tz_adt&p9=31&p10=37&p11=101)
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes)


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Martin**
    - Lucene plugin: debugging, fix for keyword indexing, small scripMartint to extract index for a submission
    - PubMed export plugin update for references
    - Started development on PubMedReferences plugin to fetch PubMed Ids for references (see discussion in Development channel)
    - Upgraded two platforms (test servers) to OJS 3.3.0-17 - no problems occurred
    - Participation in 1st National Conference on Diamond Publishing, Bern, Switzerland
    - UZH theme updates
 - **Dulip**
     - Portico Plugin: TIB writes into Portico through OJS-Protico-plugin.  
     - Working on a plugin for PDF validation for Long-Term-Archving tools. [Portico-Doc](https://www.portico.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/02/Portico_Technical_Metadata_Tool_Usage_1_4.pdf), [Rosetta-Doc](https://knowledge.exlibrisgroup.com/Rosetta/Knowledge_Articles/JHOVE's_PDF-hul_Module)
     - Creating LensCompatible XML from external XML sources
     - Customer reviewer imports from third-party systems
     - CRAFT-OA : GDPR 
- **AJ**
    - Lucene problem debugging - error handling and the way the plugin describes how many articles have been indexed really does not work.
    - Working on (discussing, not coding) a new set of site and context themes for Journal.fi and Edition.fi
    - CRAFT-OA feature for splitting the UI language and Metadata language just merged
    - Rebased an old small-but-very-important pull request which will allow setting the issue published date when adding a new issue, waiting for a certain Canadian developer to review [#7165](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/7165)
    - Doing comparison between different Contributor Role taxonomies (not CREDIT approach), hoping to suggest a taxonomy for PKP products, see Contributor Role mapping (Google doc link removed)
        - The goal here is to separate the Roles used for User Permission and the Roles used for Metadata
- **Marc**
    - [dojo](https://github.com/marcbria/dojo): Ansible playbooks for a full automated PKP server
    - [EQSIP final review](https://zenodo.org/records/10726732).
    - CRAFT-OA: survey, m18m-urls and jats-reviewers
- **Ronald**
    - XML-Workflow (docx -> JATS -> HTML -> PDF) development published: https://github.com/ronste/xmlworkflow
    - DNB-Export-Plugin for OJS 3.4 published: https://github.com/ojsde/dnb
- **Alex**
    - Still working with Lepidus on adapting plugins to OJS 3.4;
    - DocMaps plugin for displaying preprint reviews avaiable in Sciety (developed by Sean Wiseman);
    - Initializing development of plugin for collecting demographic data from users (with Lepidus);
    - Testing Metabase for internal editorial statistics.
- **Alec**
    - Released OJS/OMP/OPS 3.3.0-x and 3.4.0-x builds -- some XSS and template injection issues fixed
    - A portion of the PKP team recently met in Montreal for a Coalition Publica gathering (also talked XML)
    - Will be gathering folks interested in theming infrastructure for some brainstorming
    - Nextcloud use for tech committee?
- **Name**
    - Description


### Highlight of the month: ###

- None
        

Agenda
------

- **How to finish our "Who is who in JATS" report:** What needs to be done? Is still relevant? Should it lead to recommendations for users or to PKP?


Notes
-----

- ORE proposal: focus on HTML for body text and stop waiting for a JATS-native editor.
- JATS XML Home Demo (issue #5xxx)
    - To be included in OJS 3.5. 
    - Able to Upload & Download (for workflows that have external JATS documents)
    - Able to present OJS-generated JATS template (for workflows that do not have externally-produced JATS)
    - Q&A:
        - AJ points a challenge with dependent files (ie: images)
            - Currently dependent files are attached to galleys (e.g. HTML). This will lead to duplication with HTML and XML.
            - XML galleys do not yet have dependent file uploading; this will need to be solved.
        - Discussion re: versioning: JATS versioning follows publication versioning pattern.
- About the "Who is Who" document
    - New actors like:
        - Forum discussion: https://forum.pkp.sfu.ca/t/jats-to-ojs-native-xml-tool/86888
        - The general channel in Mattermost might be a good place to survey for new entrants.
            - Quatro?
            - [Ronald&Dulip's work](https://github.com/ronste/xmlworkflow)
            - ...
    - Missing validation
        - Erudit has a validation schema JATS 1.3 (archiving) and Schematron.
        - OAI JATS plugin does this in CI testing on a sample document
        - "Live validation" would require either an external service or a less varied environement (e.g. no Python requirement)
    - How would we prevent e.g. authors from re-entering abstracts into an HTML editor?
        - Need to study/survey when in the workflow the conversion would happen. Would authors or editors do it? Authors are likely to misunderstand requirements and attempt to enter HTML that mimics what they expect for printed page (repeating e.g. metadata) without guidance.
- About the document:
    - Who likes to get deeper involved in the writing? Dulip, AJ, Marc.
    - What is still missing? Validation, Checking, New actors, IA...
    - Move deprecated tools to bottom (as an Appendix)
    - Change title to refer OJS (who is who in JATS in OJS?).
- PKP JATS roadmap
    - Expect the announcement of ORE contract will happen in June.
    - XML working group will meet soon -- let Juan know if you would like to join

**We decide to move from 8am PST to 8am Vancouver time.**


Actions
-------

- Marc will clean the existing document moving deprecated tools to the bottom and adding the new ones (if any).
- Dulip and AJ offered theirself to review and a better writing.
- Title will be changed to something more related to OJS (temprary title "Who is who in JATS in the OJS univers").
- Once "clean" the document will be transfered to XML workgroup as a reference to use or to start from scratch.


Next month:

- TBD


Old Business
------------

:one: What do we want to do from the TC and how will we do it?: Discussion on the choice of TC themes and the dynamics of operation.
:two: Who's Who in JATS - 2023 report": Review together the report that describes current projects and announce upcoming ones. Also think about if/how it will be shared with the community.
:three: How it works. How could be improved.
:question: New topic: new subject not listed above.


Question of the Month
---------------------

TBD


Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Vancouver time
