# 16 May 2024

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Marc, Dulip, Martin, Devin, Sebastian, Ronald, Alec, Piere, Joey
- Regrets: 

Meeting at: [8am Vancouver Time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20240418T150000&p1=256&p2=tz_pt&p3=tz_pdt&p4=80&p5=3705&p6=418&p7=tz_adt&p8=31&p9=37&p10=101).
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes).


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Dulip**
  - Grant application requirements/planning for a national OJS platform for Germany (if granted)
  - OJS 3.3 lensGalleyBits Plugin
- **Marc**
  - Working on "[dojo](https://github.com/marcbria/dojo)": Ansible playbooks for a full automated PKP server (I hate mod_rewrite). 
  - [pkpCheckURL](https://github.com/marcbria/pkpCheckURLs): An script to test OxS endpoints (regular, RESTful or noJournalSlug).
      - Endpoint validation, comments and feedback welcome.
  - Talks for a sprint in Valencia during 2025.
  - New report plugin with FECYT.
- **Martin**
  - OJS 3.4.0-5 Upgrade for multi-journal platform (Test). Basic installation runs, now working on themes, themes, ....
  - Testing Lucene for OJS 3.4.0-5 (works).
  - GeoIP2 Lite for OJS 3.3 --> PR to Bozana DONE.
- **Ronald**
  - Installing/migrating new (non OJS) journals
- **Davin**
  -  PKP Sprint Minneapolis 2024: plugin dev, Health Check plugin
      -  a plugin to help support/troubleshoot an OJS instance by a 3rd party (e.g. Coalition Publica use case)
- **Alec**
  - Continuing to work with Metabase for statistics/report creation.
  - Minnesota sprint -- experimenting with a health check plugin
- **Joey**
    - Discussions about journals and exports in OJS 



### Highlight of the month: ###

- TBD

Agenda
------

- Welcome new member: @sschmidt
- [Distributed DOIs](https://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/2024/03/14/guest-post-navigating-the-drift-persistence-challenges-in-the-digital-scientific-record-and-the-promise-of-dpids/): is this as promising as it looks?
    - Proof of Work, waste of energy.
    - What are the possible benefits?
        - Reduced cost of DOI minting?
    - Philosophical: decentralized vs. centralized; trust; curation; services; value


Notes
-----

- Welcome new member: Sebastian Schmidt (Dresden University)
- Distributed DOIs:
    - [Article](https://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/2024/03/14/guest-post-navigating-the-drift-persistence-challenges-in-the-digital-scientific-record-and-the-promise-of-dpids)
    - [Website](https://www.dpid.org)
    - [Respository](https://github.com/desci-labs/nodes/)
    - [Proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_cluCky00Ssc_lUf57M8bq1yToHlGcovBrwW0HpbbYU/edit)
    - [Dulip's summary of the Proposal doc](https://hackmd.io/DjJaY-r6QImdF_LcFroG_w?view)

Summary:
- Nice technology to keep an eye.
- Concerns about how the proof of work will be done (calculations for something useful or just buring energy?)
- We recognize DOI agencies are doing useful work appart from of the DOI assignation. Worried if a decentralized approach will mean less quality in metadata.
- Interesting technology to be extended to other data (not only PIDs)?
- Concerns about how this could be applied in global south. Probably won't be a problem so you won't need to have a node to use the network. 
- ...

Next month:

- TBD


Old Business
------------

:one: Institutional services management: How do we manage our publishing services?
:one: API patterns: Jarda is askign for feedback.
:three: OMP dev priorities: If you could make a small development for OMP, what would it be?
:four: Version and Support communication page: What to show? General rules?
:five: Health Check plugin
:six: Contextual help in OxS: Missing oportunity? Improve or abandon it?
:seven: Devika's priorization table
:question: New topic: new subject not listed above.


Question of the Month
---------------------

TBD:
- OMP dev priorities: If you could make a small development for OMP, what would it be?
- Contextual help in OxS: Missing oportunity? Improve or abandon it?


Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Vancouver time
