# Thursday 17 July

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Martin, Dulip (with interruptions), Alex, Marc, Emily, Sebastian, Joey
- Regrets: Alec (vacacions), AJ (vacacions)

Meeting at: 
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes).


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?
   

- **Alex**
    - Vacation :)
    - Released a plugin (with Lepidus) to show embedded PDF on the Galleys tab (https://github.com/lepidus/pdfEmbedViewer).
    - Installed today "DEIA Survey" plugin for SciELO Brazil journals (https://github.com/lepidus/deiaSurvey) -- it should be available on the plugin gallery soon (pending approval from PKP)
    - Developing a plugin (with Lepidus) to integrate OPS to ScholarOne in order to quickly submit approved preprints to journals using ScholarOne.
- **Dulip**
    -  XML Workflows 
        - https://github.com/withanage/doi2jats : Tool for creating   jats-references using crossref and openalex as a basis for a OJS plugin.
    -  Evaluation of 3-rd party editors for integration into OJS XML workflows.
- **Sebastian**
    - Developed Testcases for OJS (3.3) for automatic end2end function tests with https://forum.pkp.sfu.ca/t/austausch-zu-automatisierten-tests-fur-ojs/95072/18
    - Collecting further requirements for improvements on https://github.com/NateWr/individualizeTheme
    - Testing Theme and Plugins on 3.5
    - Learning Plugin-Dev for Vue.js
- **Marc**
    - Docker images improvements and releases (for OJS and OMP). 
    - CRAFT-OA toolkit writing (almost finished).
    - Potential grant to implement the OMP-Odoo bridge (coordination with zoe and Thoth).
- **Martin**
    - OJS 3.4.0-9 update of two platforms
    - Go-live of "Proceedings of the Collegium Helveticum" (joint institute of ETHZ, UZH, zhdk)
    - Extension of Crossref export to various Crossref record types https://www.crossref.org/documentation/schema-library/markup-guide-record-types/ . Mapping of COAR resource types (OpenAIRE) to Crossref record types. Work in progress, https://github.com/mpbraendle/crossref-ojs. Already in production: posted content, reports
    - Helping my colleague in transition of UZH HOPE journals to OpenID login with MFA only. ORCID and Switch EduID as IdPs. This due to a CISO regulation that all public UZH platforms must have MFA enabled for login/registration.
    - Finished retrodigitisation (1947-1989) of a chemistry journal. Poster about process on https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15168440
    - Perplexity AI user interaction with articles leads to high download counts of articles, resulting in a distortion of statistics.
- **Emily**
    - currently co-instructor for the current ALA Repositories course
    - ongoing testing of our new OJS setup for more journals 
    - helping with the new Library Freedom Journal, run on OJS https://ojs.library.queensu.ca/index.php/lfj/index
- **Joey**
    - Assisting with some research on archival/preservation options for OJS journals
    - Applying to "[1st Canadian Conference for Open Science and Scholarship](https://oscanada.github.io/en/call-for-contributions)"

Agenda
------
- review quick updates
- August meeting logistics follow up
- Interest in co-working group with Members' Committee on feature requests?
- Any update on sprint reports re: front-end tech? Reports from Jarda (and Rob from Ubiquity and others) were specifically mentioned last time
- Welcome to special guest Jarda so we can discuss the tech stack for reader UI
- Follow up on ongoing work 
    - LTS page -- todo re: php license?
    - any updates from minimal hardware requirements and/or benchmarking for documentation project

Notes
-----
- There will be an August meeting at the usual time, Marc will chair it
- Alex and Marc both expressed interest in participating in a group with Members' Committee to discuss feature requests; Emily will follow up with Sonya about assembling this group
- Presentation from Jarda: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1x7WCeUKqs2xd_799Cm2avbPlC6cc6n4JUBiWhUCu8jQ/edit?usp=sharing
- There was a fair amount of discussion including concerns around node.js but overall the group seems in favour of Jarda's current proposal


Pending work
------------

Next steps in supported versions:
- [ ] Alec clarify the license on web-php.

Next steps about [KM tool](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2024-07-18.md):
- [ ] Group to try various proofs of concept:
    - [ ] AI / chatbot options (Martin)
    - [ ] Tools identified above (Marc)
    - [ ] FAQ area in forum for guiding support / Github Discussions for policies (Alec)
        

Old Business
------------

Other topics
------------

- :one: (In progress) How to show OxS requirements?: php version, php plugins, HW requirements... 
- :two: Core vs. Plugin-Approaches for new features.
- :three: Open Repositories integrations (SignPosting, FAIRiCat, COARNotify). 
- :four: Ideas for the Health Check plugin.
- :five: Research integrity checks (e.g., looking for papermills, suspicious activies (author and reviewer being the same person), fast journal turnaround (peer review happening too quickly)

Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Vancouver time
