# 16 January 2025

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Alec, Alex, Ronald, Martin, Sebastian, Marc, Joey
- Regrets: Devin

Meeting at: [8am Vancouver Time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20241219T160000&p1=256&p2=tz_pt&p3=80&p4=3705&p5=418&p6=37&p7=31&p8=268&p9=101).
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes).


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Martin**
    - Wrote a new navigation plugin (issue to issue and article to article navigation). Plugin is functional, styling: todo
    - Update of UZH prod platform to OJS 3.4.0-8
    - detecting a bug in statistics view (https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/10813)
    - A lot of jazz (Burghausen jazz course) + Xmas vacations
- **Marc**
    - Xmas vacations + extra personal days off.
    - European Diamond Capacity Hub and ALMASI meeting.
    - Meeting with metopes to know about their JATS developments (surpised with [circe](https://metopes.unicaen.fr/circeui/), [stylo](https://documentation.huma-num.fr/stylo/) and [leaf-writer](https://www.leaf-vre.org/docs/features/about-lw))
    - Rethinking official docker images with Ronald.
- **Ronald**
    - journal migrations from non-OJS plattforms
    - theme adaptaions
    - containerization with Podman
- **Alec**
    - Back to Metabase / statistics work
    - Database anonymizer tool: https://github.com/asmecher/pkp-anonymizer
    - Are going to need to work on migration tools for old import XML
        - Ronald: see e.g. https://github.com/ronste/ojs-2xto3x-xwalk (fork from https://github.com/quoideneuf/ojs-2xto3x-xwalk)
        - Q: What is the use case?
        - A: Preservation Network; needing to restore XML from possibly multiple OJS versions
- **Alex**
    - Not much (2 weeks off)
    - Making progress with the future SciELO Translations postprint server which will be using OPS.
    - Working on some long standing github issues for OPS/OJS (with Lepidus)
- **Sebastian**
    - Holiday
    - Finalising Individualize-Plugin (Examples can be seen here: https://plugin_test_examples.testjournals-02.qucosa.de/index.php)

Agenda
------

- ** TBD **
    - House keeping talk.
        - Proposal: If a new chair is not forthcoming at the end of the last chair's term, PKP should take over chairing.
            - Context: We have a candidate coming forward, so this is more of a hypothetical than it was 2 weeks ago.
            - Pros: We don't presume too much from the existing chair; new chairs aren't discouraged by a potential endless extension of their term.
            - Cons: Possible perception of undue domination of the agenda by PKP.
            - Alternatives: Clarify that it's the chair's role to champion selection of a new chair at the end of term?
            - Discussion: What is the level of technical engagement required of the chair?
                - Marc: More coordination than technical. Past chairs have been successful without being technical.
                - Alec: Start of term any chair tends to being with survey/overview, then we get into tech details as a group. Example of excellent outcome: report on feature requests.
            - Joey: No major concerns about PKP chairing, with concern about conflict of interest noted.
            - Sebastian: Perhaps less important who fills the role than the right energy. Group has organically identified subjects and set scope well in the past.
            - Ronald: Chair is not required to do all of the jobs. Generally agree with Sebastian. Personally, don't feel I have full context of community; chair should probably have that.
            - Marc: Nobody expects chair to cover all the bases. Everyone has different profile and can fill in missing pieces accordingly.
            - No decision made for now.
        - Potential new chair
            - Marc: 3 options...
                - Marc can continue
                - PKP can take over chair
                - New candidate
            - Alec: New candidate: 
                - Canadian librarian
                - Already informed on the type of work (met with two previous chairs)
                - Available to start in April
                - Interested in attending meetings beforehand
            - Possible issues
                - Terms of Reference: Institution is not currently a member.
            - Options:
                - Invite the candidate to the next two meetings; Marc to chair; then hand over.
                - Approved!
    - Select a topic from our old business list.
    - 


Notes
-----


TBD

### Housekeeping

- TC chair rotation.
- ToR update.

Pending work
------------

Next steps:
- Group to try various proofs of concept
    - AI / chatbot options (Martin)
    - Tools identified above (Marc)
    - FAQ area in forum for guiding support / Github Discussions for policies (Alec)
- Alec to let Roger / support forum folks know that we're looking at options



### Question of the month

TBD


Old Business
------------

- :one: [API patterns](https://mattermost.publicknowledgeproject.org/pkp/pl/b79g55jnmifpby3tmc8m8wzcxc): Jarda is asking for feedback.
- :two: OMP dev priorities: If you could make a small development for OMP, what would it be?
- :three: Version and Support communication page: What to show? General rules? [Example](https://www.php.net/supported-versions.php)
- :four: Ideas for the [Health Check plugin](https://github.com/asmecher/healthCheck).
- :five: Contextual help in OxS: Missing oportunity? Improve or abandon it?
- :six: Open Repositories integrations (SignPosting, FAIRiCat, COARNotify).
- :seven: Plugins unification and gallery structure. 
- :eight: GDPR documentation.
- :question: New topic: new subject not listed above (include as comment to this thread)


Other topics
------------


Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Vancouver time
