# Thursday 18 December

In Attendance
-------------

- Present:
    - Sebastian Schmidt
    - Emily Hopkins
    - Martin Brändle
    - Ronald Steffen
    - Alec Smecher
    - Marc Bria
    - Antti-Jussi Nygard
- Regrets: 

Meeting at: 
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes).


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Dulip**
    - CRAFT-OA
        - GDPR reviwer invitation
        - XML Leanring Course for EDCH (European Diamond Capacity Hub)
    - Texture Plugin (support importing external API endpoints)
    - LensGalley Plugin (node update, partially responsive design)
    
- **Emily**
    - work on fixing IR metadata for Library and Archives Canada harvesting and setting up some digital preservation stuff too
    - work towards layout stuff for new Library Freedom Project journal
    - CARL event on new repository article (https://www.carl-abrc.ca/event/canadian-repositories-community-of-practice-december-call-current-challenges-and-future-directions-for-institutional-repositories-snapshots-from-the-literature/)

- **AJ**
    - Finishing CRAFT-OA work (data citations, contributor roles etc.)
    - Fixes for OMP crossref plugin
    - Lots of 3.4 related bug squashing and getting editors settled to the new version
    - Working on a couple of 3.4 plugins to fix some issues editors have noticed: DOI not visible in the metadata, users answering to emails instead of logging in to write a response in the system.

- **Martin**
    - Updated two platforms to OJS 3.4.0-10
    - Testing OJS 3.5.0-2, adapting plugins
    - different tasks regarding repository + AI

- **Marc**
    - OJS 3.5 testing (behind a reverse-proxy).
    - Update Docker images.
    - [ARTS plugin](https://github.com/MejorAbierta/ARTSPlugin) closing.
        - Extracts information from OJS in JSON, HTML or CSV formats -- e.g. KPIs from jounrals, what version of OJS, gender information, etc. Can use arbitrary SQL.
    - Recovering from the flu.

- **Sebastian**
    - Finalizing the second development iteration with Nate on the [Individualize-Theme](https://github.com/NateWr/individualizeTheme) and the additional plugins generated within the project ([DSGVO-conform Google Fonts](https://github.com/NateWr/googleFonts), [Inline HTML Galleys](https://github.com/NateWr/exampleIndividualizeChild), [Open Science Badges](https://github.com/NateWr/openScienceBadges) and [Partner Logos](https://github.com/NateWr/partnerLogos))
        - Accessibility Adaptations
        - Bugfixes and Changes for 3.5
        - --> Aim provide to the plugins via gallery once we finalized the project and issues [12129](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/12129), [12133](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/12133), [12141](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/12141), [12067](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/12067) and [12134](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/12134) are solved
        - Added [User-Documentation](https://www.slub-dresden.de/fileadmin/groups/slubsite/Ver%C3%B6ffentlichen/PUBLIA_-_SLUB_Open_Publishing/Doku_Individualize_Theme_Herausgebende.pdf) <- Translation will be provided soon

- **Alec**
    - 3.5.0-3 releases due out tomorrow
        - Regression in 3.5.0-2 in reviewer searching (OJS/OMP)
        - Upstream change in data RoR package broke installer
        - A few other minor fixes/details
    - Email discussion in Mattermost (#Development)
        - Please contribute if you have ideas/challenges, then Alec will move the themes over into a Github discussion
    - First OS-APS / SciFlow editor integration commits in place in `main`!
        - Thanks for the feedback on conversions!
    - March 17-19 virtual sprint on plugin upgrades

- **Carolina**
    - Adapted PREreview and DocMap plugins for OPS 3.4 (with Lepidus)
    - Improvements to the Dataverse plugin (with Lepidus). It'll be possible to automatically pick up the same fields that are marked required in Dataverse
    - Would like to start updating plugins for 3.5 in the next year i.e. soon

- **Ronald**
    - Plugin upgrades
    - SeDOA XML workflow business

Agenda
------
- Notetaking rotation volunteers
    - It helps to have at least 1 person designated in rotation who is mainly in charge of notes
    - Please follow up in Mattermost!
- Quick update on feature requests working group proposal
    - Emily joined an internal PKP meeting about prioritization in general -- this is a bigger discussion than expected
- Topics list -- can we eliminate or consolidate any topics, or define more clearly what our goals are for the discussions?
- check in on pending work
- Discussion on most-voted topic:  How to show OxS requirements?: php version, php plugins, HW requirements…

Notes
-----
Plugins vs. built-in features
- Main vs. plugin?
- Open Repositories integrations (SignPosting, FAIRiCat, COARNotify).

Pending work
------------

Next steps about [KM tool](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2024-07-18.md):
- [ ] Group to try various proofs of concept:
    - [ ] AI / chatbot options (Martin)
    - [x] FAQ specialized tools (Marc)
    - [ ] FAQ area in forum for guiding support / Github Discussions for policies (Alec)
Next steps about [Releases](https://hackmd.io/YOfEL0KdRwiV7wz2_TXA-w?view)
- [ ] Alec's releases the gantt diagram developemnt
- [ ] Talk with Coms to create the page at 

Old Business
------------

Other topics
------------

:one: (In progress) How to show OxS requirements?: php version, php plugins, HW requirements…
:two: Core vs. Plugin-Approaches for new features. 
    - Feature by feature: when to have a plugin, when to make core (e.g. RoR, ORCiD, probably funding is next)
    - Community maintenance standards/obligations
    - "Plugin hell" -- experienced by other platforms like Filemaker, Wordpress, etc.
    - Plans for XML process
        - If we aren't sure which tool will be most successful, use plugins to allow multiple options
    - Reasons for plugins?
        - Back-end requirements (something that involves exotic server requirements)
        - Uncertainty over best tool among many (e.g. DataCite, CrossRef)

:three: Open Repositories integrations (SignPosting, FAIRiCat, COARNotify).
:four: Ideas for the Health Check plugin.
- Journal Metadata vs. Technical Health Check (booth associated with that topic term)
:five: Research integrity checks (e.g., looking for papermills, suspicious activies (author and reviewer being the same person), fast journal turnaround (peer review happening too quickly)**
:six: [plugin API endpoints](https://mattermost.publicknowledgeproject.org/pkp/pl/4idzz8ths7dc8er8b1qc719dsc) (by Nate).
- Already a solution proposed: https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/discussions/11991#discussioncomment-15196485
:seven: personal data preservation & GDPR (by AJ).
- "Right to be forgotten"-Implementation as well as Transparancy Rights
    - Which places in OJS store personal data that would have to be considered? --> Guidance for Administrators needed
    - Currently requirements from ORE --> TIB + PKP work on
:eight: [SBOM](https://forum.pkp.sfu.ca/t/software-bill-of-materials-sbom/95822/13?u=marc) (by Jon)
:nine: FAQs management (by Marc)
- Document available for review by the committee
:keycap_ten:  [OxS decoupling and 12 factors](https://forum.pkp.sfu.ca/t/decoupling-the-application-for-cloud-native-development-and-deployment-scenarios-according-to-the-twelve-factors-12factor-net/97143/3) (by Jon)
:page_with_curl: ToR update
:electric_plug: metadata and plugins (started by Juan I think) -- FWIW when this was discussed it sounded like Mike wanted to follow up on something about funder metadata before we discussed further but I can check in with him
:books: OMP terminology (and redefinition).

Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: **NEW** 7am Vancouver time
