# 20 March

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Martin, Marc, Sebastian, Ronald, Anti-Jussi, Emily
- Regrets: Alex, Devin, Joey

Meeting at: [Finally at 9am Vancouver Time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20250320T150000&p1=256&p2=tz_pt&p3=80&p4=3705&p5=418&p6=37&p7=31&p8=268&p9=101).
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes).


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Martin Brändle**
    - Patches for autocomplete function in Lucene plugin for OJS 3.4.
    - Shifting Lucene indexing to a remote Solr test server.
    - Testing OpenID plugin with Swiss IdP (Switch edu-ID and UZH). There is a bug in saving the settings. Once saved settings can not be reverted (commit 639382f solves this).
    - Retrodigitisation (1947-1989) of a chemistry journal, ongoing. Poster about findings at Swiss Diamond OA workshop day (21 March 2025).
- **Marc Bria**
    - Helping our journals to pass the quality seal accreditation of the Science and Technology Foundation (FECYT, a national agency).
    - Working on a AI-policy for journals (as a requirement of FECYT). Sharing with PKP first draft in English in a week or two.
    - Helping fellows with a [new plugin](https://github.com/FECYT/RECYT) (journal quality indicators for FECYT, similar to the SciELO plugin).
    - CRAFT-OA Toolkit writting/talking.
- **Ronald**
    - eventually finished styling a new journal (could be a showcase ?): [https://thefebruaryjournal.org](https://thefebruaryjournal.org/index.php/tfj)
    - testing OJS 3.5rc1 (and worrying how to communicate the changes to our editors)
- **AJ**
    - OMP 3.4 Crossref plugin
    - Browse by section and category moved to core (for 3.6)
    - Enhanced backissue publishedDate handling for 3.5
    - CRAFT-OA stuff: Credit roles to the core, contributor types (person, group, anon)
- **Sebastian Schmidt**
    - Currently working on Inhouse Long Time Archiving Workflow
    - Fiddeling with statistics to comply to Plan S (https://forum.pkp.sfu.ca/t/statistics-for-reviews-requested-and-received-as-part-of-editorial-stats/95265)


Agenda
------

- **PKP's strategic plan (with Devika)**


Notes
-----

### Questions...

1. **Mutual support:** What are some of your organization’s current or upcoming goals and priorities? What are you working on that might relate to PKP?
2. **Trends and thought leadership:** What do you see as the key trends or areas of thought leadership in your field that will be impacting our shared work over the next 5-10 years? Given what you know of PKP, are there any actions or changes PKP might take to prepare for or react to those trends?
3. **Wrap up:** On the scale of “small scale improvements” to “big changes”, how much change do you think PKP needs to go through during the next 5 years? 
(On a scale of 1 to 5, 1 being small improvements, and 5 being big changes).
    - What types of [small /big changes] do you see necessary over the next 5 years?


### Answers...

#### UZH:
1. **Mutual support** 
- [UZH Digital Strategy ](https://www.digital.uzh.ch/digitalstrategie/index.html): UZH wants to position on AI in research, education and services as leading institution. Currently we are investigating in RAG in various platforms, including the publication repository. RAG may make sense for journals with many articles. RAG options could include: AI-supported retrieval, summaries, explanation of concepts and figures in publications, retrieval refining, accessibility and more.

2. **Trends and thought leadership**
- OR 2024: "OJS is a monolithic solution" - with v3.6+, workflow steps will be introduced where it makes sense to modularize and open as a service, e.g. open peer peer review, typesetting (think "overlay journals" using COAR Notify).
- AI-created content detection in submissions (similarly to plagiarism detection)
- Typesetting in OJS 3.6+: A configurator is wished for typesetting templates (e.g. 2-column layout, ...) that is easy to use by editors. Also, similary to theme libraries, a typesetting template library would be of help.

3. **Wrap up**
- Rate: 
    - 4-5 for topic 1
    - 4 for topics in 2


#### UAB: 
1. **Mutual support** 
- In the coming years we want to focus on improving the **editorial quality of the publishing service**. We will need measurements for the observation at the internal level (in relation to editorial work but also with/between authors/reviewers/readers) and at the external level (dissemination, impact, metrics...). This objective is aligned with the DOAS project of the European Diamond Capacity Hub and ALMASI, which define quality in scientific publishing. 
- We can take quantitative & qualitative mesurings, so we are planning to include/create tools that allow us to extract indicators (KPIs) of the performance of the journals, so we hope to work with PKP for this collective objective.

2. **Trends and thought leadership** 
- Without a doubt, BOOKS. Although there is still room for improvement in journals (automatisms in typesetting/layout/validation..., metadata, introduction of AI aids, disaggregated statistics, new functionalities...) the truth is that the journals context is strongly consolidated. But projects like Palomera, or OpenBookCollective make it clear that it is a very good time to expand the OJS model to Books (not only Monographs, by the way). 
- PKP (with OMP) is very well positioned to expand its target, but it is important to understand that the context of books is different from that of journals. I mean, in books, open science is still more a wish than a reality. In books there are more "market-related" needs than we have in journals (ie: book production process, sales, stocks). So, OMP needs an improved structure, solid maintenance and testing but also integration with ERP/CRM products to cover the requirements of the target niche till they move to the full "Diamond" approach.
- Second, in tech terms, to consolidate our infrastructure, would be great if OxS tools become more gently with single-tenant and take in consideration the expansion of container approaches.
- Finally, as said, automatizations for typesetting/layout/validation will be a must but, as far as interconnectivity and quality indicators will be more relevant areas, we would probbly need an API improvement and new tools to ensure Metadata quality.

3. **PKP improvements**
- Rate: 3 - Middle changes (great on some stuff, not as great in others)
- In short? "Community coordination". It's not PKP's responsible but PKP could benefit and it's in a really good position to become the "Agora" where regional/national needs converge.
- The fact is, with the exception of SciELO, Erudit, TIB and TSV, I feel that regional opportunities are not being taken advantage of. There are many overlapping initiatives and many local resources that are wasted on one-off developments (without maintenance and future) or useless (as they do not have the resources to be used). 
- In a practical way it cold be landed in: Coordinate fellows to detect overlaping and work together in similar needs (create and promote a place to share and discuss projects?), better explanations about "how to contribute" (for devs, testers, translators...) and a more transparent process about the decision making (Spaces of decision, Paid developments, Feature Request Forum...).


#### SFU Library

1.  **Mutual support**
- One of SFU Library's main priorities is expanding and facilitating better support for digital scholarship, which includes better positioning the library to support multimodal publishing and diverse research outputs
    - OJS API has been great for doing some of this (e.g. developing [mapping projects](https://fragmenting.dhil.lib.sfu.ca))
    - Better support for multimedia and new forms of scholarly publishing (e.g. podcasts, videos, etc)
    - Mechanisms for better surfacing labour, credit, and acknowledgement in ways that foreground decolonization/Indigenous protocols (e.g. through CReDIT taxonomy, Traditional Knowledge labels)

2. **Trends and thought leadership**
- In terms of trends, generally: highly concerned with sustainability and capacity; and moving to more modern infrastructures (e.g. away from PHP when possible; containerized environments)


#### SLUB Dresden
1. **Mutual support**
- Currently working on new Strategy for SLUB (2025-2030)
- Planned Growth for Publishing Services, expanding into OPS and possibly OMP

2. **Trends and thought leadership**
- Publishing (living) Books, Preprints, ... --> Support for more Document Types (Idea: Doctype per Section),
- Integration with Research Data
- Crossmark/Equivalents to Handle Retractions etc.
- Peer Review Crediting -> Orcid

3. **Wrap Up**
- Rate: 3
- Improving Quality Checks
- Some of the named functions should lead to (needed) better usability (less evasion to third-party pages e.g. for metadata enrichment, crediting needed)


#### The Federation of Finnish Learned Societies
1. **Mutual support**
- Re-organising our own work to match the amount of journals we have now, both technical and organisational
- CRAFT-OA work of course right now
- Automatic translations in OJS workflow, a potential project in the future

2. **Trends and thought leadership**
- AI assisted workflows
- *Everything marked as an article*: CRAFT-OA
    - content types
- Alternative publishing formats
- Enabling smooth editing of content inside the applications
    - article layout editor and media library

3. **Wrap Up**
- Rate: 3
- Even more controlled testing / stable releases
- Transparency to how the community can affect the application and how are decisions done
- Moving the applications closer to eachother, single application goal - **do we have this goal**?
- Clear choice between multitenant and single tenant models and working towards making it work.


#### FU-Berlin
1. **Mutual support**
- Running OJS/OMP in a container
Can you see any ways that PKP could contribute to or work alongside you on those goals?
- Improve automatization features (e.g. plugin management)
- Plugin quality control

2. **Trends and thought leadership**
- Consider more flexible publication schemes, e.g. living documents

3. **Wrap Up**
- Rate:
    - 2 for the core features of OJS
    - 5 for new fields mentioned under 2


Pending work
------------

Next steps:
- Group to try various proofs of concept
    - AI / chatbot options (Martin)
    - Tools identified above (Marc)
    - FAQ area in forum for guiding support / Github Discussions for policies (Alec)
- Alec to let Roger / support forum folks know that we're looking at options


### Question of the month

- Workgroup to make a proposal for a "Versions and Support" page. 


Old Business
------------

- :one: API patterns: Jarda is asking for feedback. 
- :two: OMP dev priorities: If you could make a small development for OMP, what would it be? 
- :three: Version and Support communication page: What to show? General rules? Example
- :four: Ideas for the Health Check plugin. 
- :five: Contextual help in OxS: Missing oportunity? Improve or abandon it?
- :six: Open Repositories integrations (SignPosting, FAIRiCat, COARNotify). 
- :seven: GDPR documentation. 
- :eight: How to show OxS requirements?: php version, php plugins, HW requirements... 
- :nine: Core vs. Plugin-Approaches for new features.
- :one::zero: Let's talk together :three: and :eight:


Other topics
------------

TBD

Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Vancouver time
