
# Thursday 19 June

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Emily, Marc, Sebastian, Ronald, AJ, Alec
- Regrets: Joey, Martin, Davin, Dulip, Alex 

Meeting at: 
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes).


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?
   
- **AJ**
- **Alec**
    - OJS/OMP/OPS 3.5.0 out!
    - OSS ORE M10 deliverable complete
    - Catching up on lots of pending work.
- **Alex**
- **Sebastian**
    - Developing Test Cases for automated Function testing on live instances with German-speaking OJS Group /w Ronald (evaluating Hurl, Cypress and Playwright)
    - Preparing Presentation of Theme Plugin for OA-Tage (Open Access Days) Conference in September
- **Ronald**
    - Lots of XML-business
    - plugin upgrades
    - DE journal hosting network established: https://open-access.network/vernetzen/digitale-fokusgruppen/fokusgruppe-ojs-hosting
- **Marc**
    - Docker images: [Looking for feedback](https://forum.pkp.sfu.ca/t/omp-docker-images-for-3-3-0-21-3-4-0-9-and-3-5-0-0/96103).
        - OMP is now up to date (3.3, 3.4 and 3.5) and OJS 3.5 was also released.
        - Relevant changes: multi-stage, debian based, php8.3, OMP & OJS scripts convergence, postgres support, bugfixing. Talking in the "containers" channel. 
    - Exploring an Odoo-OMP integration. Anyone interested in the topic?
    - OMP 3.3.0-16 upgrade to 3.3-LTS.
    - CRAFT-OA toolkit writing.
    - EDCH Forum & Register external review.
- **Martin**
- **Emily**
    - working on test site for our expanded journal hosting service at USask

Agenda
------
- Brief review of some survey responses (also these are FLOSS mascots since a lot of you were not familiar and they are fun! https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_computing_mascots)
    - mascot list missing: steam locomotive
    - Relationship to PKP: vital, shapes software behaviour, we have a lot of freedom and support; we should provide technical advice and practical know-how for long-term strategic planning and advance smaller topics through work groups
    - Goals for this year: integrating XML features, handling 'Feature Requests' forum (Feature requests could be a good opportunity to have a working group with people from Membership Committee)
    - Highlights from past work: coming out with LTS versions, pre-release testing, involvement in OJS Community Development Priority Survey (could be good to work with Comms team to communicate back how many of these priorities have been realized in 3.5)
    - New/priority topics: Core vs. Plugin, help for plugin developers, Research Integrity checks
- (as needed) any followup from AGM which is on Tuesday 17 June -- register here: https://pkp.sfu.ca/2025/05/20/pkp-2025-agm-registration-open/ and here is the annual report: https://pkp.sfu.ca/2025/06/16/annual-report-2024-release/
- Follow up on ongoing work (LTS page, OxS requirements)
- ~~Welcome to special guest Jarda so we can discuss the tech stack for reader UI~~[postponed until July]
- Reports/follow up from the sprint 

Notes
-----

- Alec show us a proof of concept editor integration in OJS. Looks promising.
- LTS page?
    - Alec working on the supported versions chart (based on web-php repo)
    - Alec needs to clarify that the license on web-php allows us to do this
    - TC has been in touch with Alejandra.
    - Need better clarity / broader communication of dates e.g. for deprecation of last LTS. Alec to include TC representation in release process debrief -- that'll include e.g. PKP comms team.
- OxS requirements?
    - README.md now includes software requirements
    - Hardware requirements
        - TODO: Provide example platform and benchmark information. Alec working on this as part of OSS ORE project.
        - The group could develop the test specifications to help -- e.g. use [siege](https://github.com/JoeDog/siege) with X options on Y URLs
        - Discussion: Could the beacon be extended to reveal platform information? (Telemetry is controversial and we've been quite careful!)
            - Alec: Rather than trying to add a telemetry back-channel, which would be controversial, we're trying to push the use/adoption/support of open science principles, which can achieve the same aim. This won't tell us e.g. what plugins are used, but will possibly expose workflow info.
        - Fun idea: what about smallest-possible-OJS (e.g. Raspi)?
            - Totally possible!
        - Discussion: What about additional optional components that might have higher requirements?
            - Alec: We're working hard on keeping this from adding to requirements unless really necessary. Example: Vivliostyle in the browser rather than server-side.
            - Alec and Sebastian to work on this.
- Alec: Watch for sprint reports on the future of front-end technology. Jarda (and Rob from Ubiquity and others) have a good plan going forward.

Pending work
------------

Next steps in supprted versions:
- [ ] Alec clarify the license on web-php.


Next steps about [KM tool](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2024-07-18.md):
- [ ] Group to try various proofs of concept:
    - [ ] AI / chatbot options (Martin)
    - [ ] Tools identified above (Marc)
    - [ ] FAQ area in forum for guiding support / Github Discussions for policies (Alec)
        - We are using the "FAQ" tag: https://forum.pkp.sfu.ca/tag/faq
- [x] Alec to let Roger / support forum folks know that we're looking at options [done]

Old Business
------------

Other topics
------------

- :one: (In progress) How to show OxS requirements?: php version, php plugins, HW requirements... 
- :two: Core vs. Plugin-Approaches for new features.
- :three: Open Repositories integrations (SignPosting, FAIRiCat, COARNotify). 
- :four: Ideas for the Health Check plugin.
- :five: Research integrity checks (e.g., looking for papermills, suspicious activies (author and reviewer being the same person), fast journal turnaround (peer review happening too quickly)

Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Vancouver time

A note on note taking
-----------
Note taking is shared -- anyone may edit the document. Alec will upload to the minutes page 24 hours after the meeting to allow for any final edits or updates committee members have.
