# Thursday 17 April

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Alex,Sebastian, Alec, Joey, Marc
- Regrets: 

Meeting at: 
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes).


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?
   
- **AJ**
    - Preliminary work for Data Citations support
    - Testing OMP Crossref plugin, got some help from Spain (not Marc)
    - Doing some mass imports to OMP with a modified tsvConverter script
    - Looking into upgrading the Funding plugin
- **Martin Br√§ndle** 
    - Meetings (German speaking working group) on automated testing.
    - Shifted Lucene indexing to a remote Solr test server.
    - Swiss Diamond OA Workshop 21th March 2025 (poster, workshop contribution).
    - Retrodigitisation (1947-1989) of a chemistry journal, ongoing.
    - Test update of a OJS 3.4 multi-journal installation to OJS 3.5.0 RC2.
* **Alex**
    - Gearing up to install Demographics Question Plugin (developed by Lepidus) to SciELO journals (https://github.com/lepidus/demographicData/)
    - Upgrading OPS to v3.4
    - Upgrading other OJS installs to v3.4
    - Improvements to the Dataverse plugin (with Lepidus)
- **Sebastian**
    - Trying to implement public statistics on journal pages (Plan S compliance)
    * 
- **Ronald**
    - Working on plugin upgrades for 3.5 
* **Alec**
    - 3.5.0-0 due in probably a couple of weeks
    - Seeing increased activity of scripted attacks on older OJS/OMP/OPS installs; so far these are out of date installs, but I'm interested in more data.
- **Marc**
    - Helping with a 2.x to 3.3 upgrade.
    - Created [this repo](https://github.com/marcbria/ojsExtraTools) for helper tools.
    - Helping fellows that like to extend the openID plugin.


Agenda
------
- Thank you Marc! :trophy: :confetti_ball: 
- Housekeeping
    - Membership renewals April 1: please email me (emily.hopkins@usask.ca) to confirm you would like to renew your term if it has been two years!)
    - Question of the month: special survey edition (see below)
    - Brief review of existing topics list (see below for proposed changes based on chat)
- Review and approve Supported Versions page from working group so we can hand off to PKP Comms: (public hackmd link removed)
- Topic: How to show OxS requirements?: php version, php plugins, HW requirements... https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/discussions/9559


Notes
-----

### Supported Versions page

- Q: Distinctions between maintenance, support, etc?
    - A: PKP goes right to maintenance from release.
- Q: What about adding upgrade support to graph -- e.g. what the earliest version you can upgrade from for a new release?
    - A: Maybe not -- if we can get folks onto a clear upgrade track (LTS or STS), then it becomes unnecessary.
- Q: What about backwards compatibility?
    - A: We don't offer "backwards compatibility" per se -- but there are two docs for orienting users who upgrade:
        - What's New in 3.4: https://docs.pkp.sfu.ca/learning-ojs/en/about-ojs#whats-new
        - Release Notebook for 3.4: https://docs.pkp.sfu.ca/dev/release-notebooks/en/3.4-release-notebook
- Q: What about documentation for folks who go right from 3.3 to 3.5?
    - A: We don't have specific documentation for that jump.
    - Alec: Suggest that we add "what I need to know about 3.3 to 3.4" for those who are going right from 3.3 to 3.5.
        - Added to 3.5.0 Release Notebook; will suggest adding to 3.5.0 documentation as well. Alec will ping Emma.
- Q: Where are we duplicating documentation that will need to be updated? Can some of it be removed?
    - A: It'll be a mix: Docs hub, maybe github/codebase, also PKP website. No one team manages all of these, so we'll need to bring in several groups to check coverage.
    - M: Suggests to centralize information to avoid unsyncronizations and suggest a check of the additional pages talking about this same topic that could be outdated (decide to close or update accordingly).
        - First research of associated pages: (public hackmd link removed)
        - TC can help mapping it.
- Next steps: This group to review and approve in principle
- Alec (and dev team) to review specifics e.g. dates
- Alec to experiment with PHP-side graphic generation tool based on [what's used on the PHP website](https://github.com/php/web-php/blob/77d8a8c8f0b5072c7d2e58284eedf6871baf52ea/images/supported-versions.php)
- Then, Emily to take to Alejandra (e.g. on Tech Committee Mattermost channel, which is open)
    - They will decide exactly where to put it (and this will decide some technical aspects of how it's written)

### How to show OxS requirements?

php version, php plugins, HW requirements... 
https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/discussions/9559

- PKP suggests use the composer.json to get this information.
- Needs work to ensure that the checks are run/documented in the right place:
    - Maybe document what Composer script needs to be run to check deployment?
    - Maybe built the checks right into the install/upgrade process?
- Q: What about Ansible / Playbook style deployments?
    - Could we refer to the Composer document listing modules?
    - Would this be confusing for admins who don't work with Composer?
- Q: What about hardware requirements?
    - Alec: It's very hard to give firm requirements. What we can do is perform benchmarking and document the conditions. Will need to do this for OSS ORE project.


Pending work
------------

[below is copied over from previous agendas, seems to have originated in https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2024-07-18.md , are these still active?]

Next steps:
- Group to try various proofs of concept
    - AI / chatbot options (Martin)
    - Tools identified above (Marc)
    - FAQ area in forum for guiding support / Github Discussions for policies (Alec)
        - We are using the "FAQ" tag: https://forum.pkp.sfu.ca/tag/faq
- Alec to let Roger / support forum folks know that we're looking at options [done]
- Summary of progress: Needs dust-off from identified leads; can be picked up at a future meeting.

### Question of the month

For this month I am going to take over this section with a little survey. Answer as many as you like, I appreciate it very much. I will email them to you so you can reply directly, then summarize some responses for us to review in May and use for planning:
1. How do you see this group's role in relation to the rest of PKP?
2. What is one thing you are really hoping we will do in the next year?
3. Please tell me a about a highlight of your experience with this group so far -- maybe a project or decision you were glad to be involved with, or something else you like.
4. Please suggest a new topic for the list, or highlight an existing topic you want us to prioritize.
5. What is your favourite FLOSS mascot?




Feel free to add questions you might like us to ponder in the future below:
* Question:

Old Business
------------

- :one: API patterns: Jarda is asking for feedback. 
    - remove? no one voted for it or mentioned it...
- :two: OMP dev priorities: If you could make a small development for OMP, what would it be? 
    - remove: Zoe already did it 
- :three: Version and Support communication page: What to show? General rules? Example
    - remove: working group drafted the page and will approve and hand off to PKP Comms after today's meeting
- :four: Ideas for the Health Check plugin. 
    - keep!
- :five: Contextual help in OxS: Missing oportunity? Improve or abandon it?
    - remove...? Seems like PKP has already moved on but if you want us to prioritize this include it in your survey :smiley: 
- :six: Open Repositories integrations (SignPosting, FAIRiCat, COARNotify). 
    - keep
- :seven: GDPR documentation. 
    - remove: outdated, covered by CRAFT OA 
- :eight: How to show OxS requirements?: php version, php plugins, HW requirements... 
    - keep, we will discuss it today
- :nine: Let's talk together :three: and :eight:
    - remove since :three: was dealt with separately 
- :one::zero: Core vs. Plugin-Approaches for new features.
    - keep


Other topics
------------

TBD

Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Vancouver time
