# 20 February

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Marc, Ronald, AJ, Davin, Emily, Joey, Martin, Ronald, Sebastian, Dulip (listen-only)
- Regrets: 

Meeting at: [8am Vancouver Time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20250220T160000&p1=256&p2=tz_pt&p3=80&p4=3705&p5=418&p6=37&p7=31&p8=268&p9=101).
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes).


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Dulip Withanage**
    - Nate's  Theme for 3.3 [TIB-OP](https://www.tib-op.org/ojs/)
        -  Found some general enhancement ideas  with Nate https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/10952
    - Prototype Interface between [OJS](https://labs.tib.eu/ojs/index.php/impactviz/article/view/1/5008) and [ORKG]( https://labs.tib.eu/ojs/index.php/impactviz/article/view/1/5008) using NISO jats and JATS V2 
- **Marc Bria**
    - Nothing relevant (Except for a meeting with Ronald in BCN :-P).
- **Martin Brändle**
    - Retrodigitisation (1947-1989) of a journal, ongoing. 
    - Onboarding new IT colleague to UZH OJS platform.
    - Preparations (poster, workshop) for Swiss Diamond OA workshop day (21 March 2025).
- **Ronald Steffen**
    - meeting Marc in Barcelona !!!
    - migrations to OJS with individual theme adaptations/child theme implementation (extending the immersion theme)
    - preparations for XML workflow tasks in the German Diamond OA Capacity Hub (SeDOA, https://diamond-open-access.de/)
- **Alec Smecher**
    - Delivered first test environment for OSS ORE to EC.
    - Experimenting with Snyk for security analysis (tepid, but useful)
    - Internal work/investigation of AI workflows :(
- **AJ Nygård**
    - CRAFT-OA related work mostly: Contributor Roles taxonomy for OJS
    - Upgrading some of our own plugins for 3.4
    - Working on DOASK with Marc ;)
- **Sebastian Schmidt**
    - Making updates to our theme plugin based on first pilot journal (https://hl.publia.org) release once OJS supports it (possibly 3.3.0.21+)
- **Joey Takeda**
    - Nothing relevant.

Agenda
------

- **Typesetting/editing plans - Alec's Update**
- **Contextual help in OxS: Missing oportunity? Improve or abandon it?**


Notes
-----

- Alec presents current state of the technical evaluation around Typesetting
  - Maybe double approach (one technical more complex but providing more functionality, one with lower deployment effort/requirements but more manual copy+pasting and editing effort for editors)
      - more complex include server-side services like pandoc
  - Current approach: focused on editor use, authors not in scope for now
  - workflow: docx > pandoc > body edited by editor + metadata and references from OJS (references linkable in the body) > exports: HTML, (EPUB), PDF with Vivliostyle in browser not server-side, JATS
      - if pandoc not used, just copy/paste body
  - images and other dependancies management (assets)
  - conversion to JATS in the worfklow
    - Target-OJS-Version: 3.6+
  - references numbering
  - Vivliostyle: hyphenation for PDF generator lib important for languages with long words (like German)
  - templates: someone has to do it, PKP don't want to do it
  - Some communities are interested in PKP take their product, so any decision taken need to be very well justified.
    - Difficult to compare simple editors vs editor+transformers (focus just in edition) and compare transformers later?
    - Extend the table with Stylo and Leaf Writer.
    - Include extra info in the table as:
        - schema used (xml, html)?
        - jats version exported?
        - number of tags avaliable? easy to extend?
    - If products are similar, join fellows with same interests (public/community projects).


Pending work
------------

Next steps:
- Group to try various proofs of concept
    - AI / chatbot options (Martin)
    - Tools identified above (Marc)
    - FAQ area in forum for guiding support / Github Discussions for policies (Alec)
- Alec to let Roger / support forum folks know that we're looking at options



### Question of the month

TBD


Old Business
------------

- :one: API patterns: Jarda is asking for feedback. 
- :two: OMP dev priorities: If you could make a small development for OMP, what would it be? 
- :three: Version and Support communication page: What to show? General rules? Example
- :four: Ideas for the Health Check plugin. 
- :five: PKP's strategic plan.
- :six: Open Repositories integrations (SignPosting, FAIRiCat, COARNotify). 
- :seven: GDPR documentation. 
- :eight: How to show OxS requirements?: php version, php plugins, HW requirements... 
- :nine: Let's talk together :three: and :eight:


Other topics
------------

TBD

Next Meeting
------------

Third Thursday of the month: 8am Vancouver time
