# Thursday 15 January 2026

In Attendance
-------------

- Present:
    - Emma, Sebastian, Carolina, AJ, Davin, Alec, Marc, Dulip
- Regrets: Martin BrÃ¤ndle

Meeting at: 
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes).


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

- **Marc**
    - XMas vacations (extended)
    - New OJS 3.5.0-3 docker image.
    - OJS workflow documentation.
- **Sebastian**
    - Final touches to Individualize Theme, Google Fonts Plugin, Partner Block Plugin and [Open Science Badges](https://www.cos.io/initiatives/badges) [Plugin](https://github.com/NateWr/openScienceBadges)
        - Localisation for German
        - Last bug fixes
        - Then application for plugin gallery (3.3, 3.5)
- **Davin**
    - JATS upgrade for OAI-PMH, JATS 1.1 --> 1.2 (versions of [schematron used in tests](https://github.com/pkp/oaiJats/blob/main/.github/actions/tests.sh) to be discussed)
- **AJ**
    - CRAFT-OA reporting and final work
    - Data Citations work for 3.6
    - Fixing small issues after 3.4 upgrade
- **Carolina**
    - Improvements to the Dataverse plugin (with Lepidus). It'll be possible to automatically pick up the same fields that are marked required in Dataverse
    - Started work on updating plugins for 3.5


Agenda
------

1. Housekeeping
- Discussed the meeting time, sticking with the current one

2. PKP Survey project 
- Recurring user survey, every 2 years: how do you feel about this, suggestions etc.
    - Discussions on what the survey should be and other details
    - Marc: raised the earlier survey and how the feature requests forum was designed to easily extract categories for a periodic survey.
    - Alec: move to forum with feature requests has been problematic because people do not feel heard. Some still go to Github with feature requests.
    - Marc: We need a PKP participation methodology - a workflow
    - Alec: the tech committee could be involved in some preparation work. Identify other projects/software with same challenges and what they are doing.

4. Question: Beacon data gaps

- Make sure that the surveys is capturing things that the beacon data is not covering
    - Alec: The beacon could be turned off. Missing data has been checked with human checks, find out whether someone sees missing journals.
    - Marc: we need respect the privacy of the journal data, but at same time would be great to get detailed feedback (enabled plugins, versions, users...) from the ones that like to share as they can be a good source of data to detect what the community does.

5. Check on WIPs


6. Topics list refinement

- OMP terminology
    - AJ: this has been discussed in Zoe's meetings. Especially a discussion about "Press" in OMP - should be more neutral and wider term
    - Marc: This is not the most important topic because it is discussed also elsewhere. Other words discussed is the OMP name: for example "Books" instead of "Monographs". Zoe is working on this.
    - Emily: no need to discuss right now, later if needed
- OxS decoupling and 12 factors
    - Marc: fits very well to the discussions we should have in the technical committee. But how to chop this big proposal to smaller parts that we could do.
    -  Alec: PKP has a feature based roadmap, but hard to see what is changing in the structure of the software. We could use such a secondary roadmap. This would make it more clear the direction of the software and answer suggestions like this more clearly. This Committee could tackle some concrete work without creating dedicated working groups, perhaps by extanding the meeting time, thus avoiding work between our meetings (the PKP Docs group works like that).

7. Discussion topic: Core vs. Plugin

- Alec: A forthcoming event for plugin developers, more details coming soon from Urooj.
- Marc: More a discussion whether we want to develop big-core or small-core, as other CMS discussed years ago. Small core will probably easier to maintain for PKP, but harder work will need to be done in plugins.
- Alec: we are already going towards a big-core solution.
- Marc: But the recommendation for third party developers is still "implement a plugin, don't try to change the core"?
- Alec: Depends of the context. Some things can be easily extended with a plugin and some things not so easily. We can also widen the code base by taking more contributions to the core.


New topics list:
(link to ehopkins hackmd removed from public minutes)

Pending work
------------

Next steps about [KM tool](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2024-07-18.md):
- [ ] Group to try various proofs of concept:
    - [ ] AI / chatbot options (Martin)
    - [x] FAQ specialized tools (Marc)
    - [ ] FAQ area in forum for guiding support / Github Discussions for policies (Alec)
Next steps about releases (link to hackmd removed from public minutes)
- [ ] Alec's releases the gantt diagram developemnt
- [ ] Talk with Coms to create the page at xxx.

