# Thursday 19 February 2026

In Attendance
-------------

- Present: Marc, Alec, Carolina, Dulip, Antti-Jussi, Marc, Sebastian, Martin, Davin, Ronald
- Regrets:

Meeting at: 
[Former notes archive](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/tree/main/meeting-minutes).


Quick Updates
-------------

### What have you been working on lately?

**Dulip**
 -   OJS 3.5 Plugin update  (with Gazi)
     - https://github.com/TIBHannover/xmlConverter/
     - https://github.com/Vitaliy-1/docxConverter/pull/25
     - LensGalleyBitsPlugin , Texture (WIP)
     - Rosetta LTA Plugin
     - Post CRAFT-OA contirbutions: review support as TIB Development Partner Contribution.
     - Ran a Test-migration of OJS 3.3 to 3.5 . Had some blockers in databes fields. But 3.5 is runnig. User-testing currently.
 -  Info: IDE folders in plugin folders e.g. pulgins/generic/.vscode breaks plugin gallery.
- **Marc**
    - Testing OJS 3.5.0-3 in production enviroment 
        - Issues with httpS and redirections.
    - Setting up a new testing server for the OJS 3.3 to 3.5 migration.
    - Thinking new KPIs (for publishing services & editors).
    - Advice for new plugins (Academic Statistics, IssueSpotlight, etc.)
    - DOAJ petition about "submission to publish" time.
    - Wrote a chapter for a book about "Open Infrastructures for Open Science".
- **Sebastian**
    - Finalized the iterat0ion on the IndividualizeTheme, ulitmately bringing it to the plugin gallery
- **Martin**
    - Upgrade of two production systems to OJS 3.4.0-10
    - Upgrades from OJS 3.4 to OJS 3.5.0-3 in two test environments
    - Updated navigation block plugin for compabitibility with OJS 3.5
    - Updated Lucene plugin for compabitibility with OJS 3.5
    - Further work on plugin updates
        - **Proposal**: Better documentation (FAQ or KB) by PKP for plugin developers - which essential PKP methods (e.g. data model, hooks, caching) have changed from 3.3 -> 3.4 -> 3.5. It is sometimes difficult to find out what could be a replament for a method that has been removed.
            - https://docs.pkp.sfu.ca/dev/release-notebooks/en/3.5-release-notebook
- **Davin**
- **AJ**
    - Working on Data Citations support for 3.6 https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/6278, merged this week
    - Working on Funding data support for 3.6
    - New plugin https://github.com/tsv-fi/hideDiscussionEmailBody
        - Removes the discussion body text from the discussion notification email. A lot of editors have complained that in 3.4 users reply to the email directly and do not login to the system to answer. New hook added in core for this that allows editing any mailable sent by the system: https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/pull/12304
    - On vacation this week
- **Carolina**
    - Still working on plugin updated to v3.5
    - Updated the Dataverse Plugin for v3.4. Now it asks for the same required fields as in Dataverse:
    ![screenshot-2026-02-11_18-11-47](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/rJn_viNuZe.png)
- **Emily**
    - working with Shelby from MC on proposal for Biennial User Survey
    - trying to implement PKP PN for our journals
    - reporting on 2025 upload service for our repository
    - personal project -- made a zine for Wikipedia's 25th birthday
    - work on upcoming CARl event about repository staffing
- **Alec**
    - OSS ORE M18 deliverable on Feb 24th (presenting today)
    - OJS/OMP/OPS 3.5 [submission list performance issue](https://github.com/pkp/pkp-lib/issues/12293) solved (thanks Mariusz Sienkiewicz!)
    - May be working with an Italian university on front-end caching (details TBD)
-  **Ronald**
    - Upgrading DNB Export Plugin to OJS 3.5
    - OJS Hosting focus group (German group that discusses anything related to hosting/running OJS).
        - The focus group is also living in the OJS forum: https://forum.pkp.sfu.ca/tags/c/regional-networks/german-topics/13/de-hosting-network
    - SeDOA Single Source Publishing Business (establishing an european SSP discussion group, Pandoc improvements)

Agenda
------

1. Quick updates
2. Check on LTS page/anything needed for that for 3.5?
    - Could also be a static page. 
4. PKP Survey update & consultation (see below for link and Qs)
5. If time: Feature Requests Project (updated working doc from past discussions: (removed hackmd link))
6. If time: Technical Shadow Roadmap Project (new working doc incorporating some of our discussion topics: (removed hackmd link))

For reference: Discussion topics list/works in progress: (removed hackmd link)

#### PKP Survey Update & consultation

Link to proposal created in collaboration with Shelby Thaysen from MC, based on note from Urooj: (removed Google Docs link)

- Looking into translation options (English, Franch, Spanish, Portuguese, Indonesian)
- Timelime will depend on ethics committee, but an initial timeline is to send the survey fall 2026/early 2027.
- Different questions for different groups
- One of the expected results for the survey is to support the strategic plan.



Questions we asked MC last week and are now asking you!
- In terms of survey audience – which members are under-represented or under-surveyed? How do we know?
    - Is the survey itself the best way to know who these groups are?
        - Talk to
            - Translators
            - Sprint goers
            - Editors (but they can be difficult to understand in regards to technical issues)
            - Partners who can reach out to their communities
    - Keep in mind (when asking and analyzing) that most people have hybrid profiles.
- What sort of info about demographics do you need to be able to do useful research? What would you like to know? Generally we are trying to collect as little as possible but not so little that we can’t do necessary work. The survey is also a better tool for gathering this sort of info than telemetry or other surveillance so we can ask for the information we need in a context where people can choose what to share really clearly.
- A shorter survey every year instead of a longer survey every two years?

Likes a lot:
- The idea of "normalized survey" with evergreen questions for comparison over time.
- How the survey is bound to research.

To take into consideration:
- What's the final goal of the survey? What is the focus?
    - Know better the people? 
    - Know more about the tools? Different surveys x tool?
    - Know more about the ecosystem?
    - How people are using the tools and why? 

Some suggestions:
- Coordination with Juan Pablo and the research people (if not done already).
- When asking questions, be very clear about which tool we are asking about (the answer will vary greatly depending on whether the respondent is thinking about OJS or OPS or OMP).
- The survey can serve as a communication tool (briefly explain in the intros why PKP prioritizes certain things, such as multilingualism, GDPR...).
- Think about when the survey is launched (for example, if the community is in the middle of migrating to OJS 3.5, the results will be skewed).
- I wouldn't limit the type of questions until we are clear about what we are looking for (e.g., "ranking" type questions can be useful for ordering plugin priorities).
- 20 minutes might be too long... 15 minutes is ideal.


Demographics:
- What questions should be asked?
    - Regional
    - Bias in responses
    - OJS version
    - Open Access
    - Support for open science practices
    - Multi/single journal installations
    - Publishing modality (is this the correct word?). ie if they're doing continuous publication, "classic" issues, preprints, conferences, etc
    - AI/LLMs use (eg is this something you use in your workflow? how? about disclosure/methodologies/metadata regarding this etc)--discuss if this is something that can be implemented into the survey and how.
    - Ask community about how do they feel about telemetry, etc.
    - Marc: Focus on "pain areas" and "development priorities".



New topics list:
https://hackmd.io/@ehopkins/rkZiri-Qbl/edit

Pending work
------------

Next steps about [KM tool](https://github.com/pkp/technical-committee/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2024-07-18.md):
- [ ] Group to try various proofs of concept:
    - [ ] AI / chatbot options (Martin)
    - [x] FAQ specialized tools (Marc)
    - [ ] FAQ area in forum for guiding support / Github Discussions for policies (Alec)
Next steps about Releases (removed HackMD link)
- [ ] Alec's releases the gantt diagram development
- [ ] Talk with Coms to create the page at xxx.

Revise plugin discussion after the sprint in March

Revisit our feature requests discussion
